Wherever in this city, screens flicker with pornography, with science-fiction vampires, victimized hirelings bending to the lash, we also have to walk…I dreamed you were a poem, I say, a poem I wanted to show someone . . . and I laugh and fall dreaming again of the desire to show you to everyone I love, to move openly together in the pull of gravity, which is not simple, which carries the feathered grass a long way down the upbreathing air.
Since we're not young, weeks have to do time for years of missing each other. Yet only this odd warp  in time tells me we're not young. Did I ever walk the morning streets at twenty, my limbs streaming with purer joy? did I lean from my window over the city listening for the future as I listen with nerves tuned for your ring? And you, you move towards me with the same tempo. Your eyes are everlasting, the green spark of the blue-eyed grass of early summer the green-blue wild cress washed by the spring. At twenty, yes: we thought we'd live forever. At forty-five, I want to know even our limits. I touch you knowing we weren't born tomorrow, and somehow, each of us will help the other live, and somehow, each of us must help the other die.
I open the mail, drinking delicious coffee, delicious music, my body still both light and heavy with you. The mail, lets fall a Xerox of something written by a man aged 27, a hostage, tortured in prison: My genitals have been the object of such a sadistic display they keep me constantly awake with the pain... Do whatever you can to survive. You know, I think men love wars... And my incurable anger, my unmendable wounds break open further with tears, I am crying helplessly, and they still control the world, and you are not in my arms. 
This apartment full of books could crack open to the thick jaws, the bulging eyes of monsters, easily: Once open the books, you have to face the underside of everything you've loved - the rack and pincers held in readiness, the gag even the best voices have had to mumble through, the silence burying unwanted children - women, deviants, witness - in desert sand. Kenneth tells me he's been arranging his books so he can look at Blake and Kafka while he types; Yes; and we still have to reckon with Swift loathing the women's flesh while praising her mind, Goethe's dread of the mothers, Claudel vilifying Gide, and the ghosts - their hands clasped for centuries - of artists dying in childbirth, wise-women charred at the stake, Centuries of books unwritten piled behind these shelves; and we still have to stare into absence of men who would not, women who could not, speak to our life - this still unexcavated hole called civilization, this act of translation, this half-world.
Well, that's finished. The woman who cherished her suffering is dead. I am her descendant. I love the scar-tissue she handed on to me, but I want to go on from here with you fighting the temptation to make a career of pain.
Your silence today is a pond where drowned things live I want to see raised dripping and brought into the sun. It's not my own face I see there, but other faces, even your face at another age. Whatever's lost there is needed by both of us - a watch of old gold, a water-blurred fever chart, a key...Even the silt and pebbles of the bottom deserve their glint of recognition. I fear this silence, this inarticulate life. I'm waiting for a wind that will gently open this sheeted water for once and show me what I can do for you, who have often made the unnameable nameable for others, even for me. 
I find there only my own animal thoughts: that creatures must find each other for bodily comfort, that voices of the psyche drive through the flesh further than the dense brain could have foretold, that the planetary nights are growing cold for those on the same journey, who want to touch one creature-traveler clear to the end; that without tenderness, we are all in hell.
Every peak is a crater. This is the law of volcanoes, making them eternally and visibly female. No height without depth, without a burning core, though our straw soles shred on the hardened lava. I want to travel with you to every sacred mountain smoking within like the sibyl stooped over her tripod, I want to reach for your hand as we scale the path, to feel you arteries glowing in my clasp, never failing to note the small, jewel-like flower unfamiliar to us, nameless till we rename her, that clings to the slowly altering rock- that detail outside ourselves that brings us to ourselves, was here before us, knew we would come, and sees beyond us.
Sleeping, turning in turn like planets rotating in their midnight meadow: a touch is enough to let us know we're not alone in the universe, even in sleep: the dream - ghosts of two worlds walking their ghost-towns, almost address each other. I've walked to your muttered words spoken light - or dark - years away, as if my own voice had spoken. But we have different voices, even in sleep, and our bodies, so alike, are yet so different and the past echoing through our bloodstreams is freighted with different language, different meanings - through in any chronicle of the world we share it could be written with new meaning we were two lovers of one gender, we were two women of one generation.
The rules break like a thermometer, quicksilver spills across the charted systems, we're out in a country that has no language no laws, we're chasing the raven and the wren through gorges unexplored since dawn whatever we do together is pure invention the maps they gave us were out of date by years we're driving through the desert wondering if the water will hold out the hallucinations turn to simple villages the music on the radio comes clear -  neither Rosenkavalier nor Gotterdammerung but a woman's voice singing old songs with new words, with a quiet bass, a flute plucked and fingered by women outside the law.
I never felt closer to you. In the close cabin where the honeymoon couples huddled in each other's laps and arms I put my hand on your thigh to comfort both of us, your hand came over mine, we stayed that way, suffering together in our bodies, as if all suffering were physical, we touched so in the presence of strangers who knew nothing and cared less vomiting their private pain as if all suffering were physical.
Whatever happens with us, your body will haunt mine - tender, delicate your lovemaking, like the half-curled frond of the fiddlehead fern in forests just washed by sun. Your traveled, generous thighs between which my whole face has come and come - the innocence and wisdom of the place my tongue has found there -  the live, insatiate dance of your nipples in my mouth - your touch on me, firm, protective, searching me out, your strong tongue and slender fingers reaching where I had been waiting years for you in my rose-wet cave - whatever happens, this is.
Across a city from you, I'm with you just as an August night moony, inlet - warm, seabathed, I watched you sleep, the scrubbed, sheenless wood of the dressing - table cluttered with our brushes, books, vials in the moonlight - or a salt - mist orchard, lying at your side watching red sunset through the screendoors of the cabin, G minor Mozart on the tape - recorder, falling asleep to the music of the sea. This island of Manhattan is wide enough of both of us, and narrow: I can hear your breath tonight, I know how your face lies upturned, the halflight tracing your generous, delicate mouth where grief and laughter sleep together.
No one's fated or doomed to love anyone. The accidents happen, we're not heroines, they happen in our lives like car crashes, books that change us, neighborhoods we move into and come to love. Tristan und Isolde is scarcely the story, women at least should know the difference between love and death. No prison cup, no penance. Merely a notion that the tape - recorder should have caught some ghost of us: that tape - recorder not merely played but should have listened to us, and could instruct those after us: this we were, this is how we tried to love, and these are the forces we had ranged within us within us and against us, against us and within us.
The more I live, the more I think two people together is a miracle. You're telling the story of your life for once, a tremor breaks the surface of your words. The story of our lives becomes our lives. Those are the words that come to mind. I feel estrangement, yes. As I've felt dawn pushing toward daybreak. Something: a cleft of light - ? Close between grief and anger, a space opens where I am Adrienne alone. And growing colder.
Can it be growing colder when I begin to touch myself again, adhesion pull away? Am I speaking coldly when I tell you in a dream or in this poem, There are no miracles? (I told you from the first I wanted daily life, this island of Manhattan was island enough for me.) If I could let you know - two women together is a work nothing in civilization has made simple, two people together is a work heroic in its ordinariness, the slow-picked, halting traverse of a pitch where the fiercest attention becomes routine - look at the faces of those who have chosen it.
That conversation we were always on the edge of having, Sometimes the moon and I discern a woman I loved, drowning in secrets, fear wound round her throat and choking her like hair. And this is she with whom I tried to speak, whose hurt, expressive head turning aside from pain, is dragging down deeper where it cannot hear me, and soon I shall know I was talking to my own soul.
The dark lintels, the blue and foreign stones of the great round rippled by stone implements the midsummer night light rising from beneath the horizon - where I said "a cleft of light" I meant this. And this is not Stonehenge simply nor any place but the mind casting back to where her solitude, shared, could be chosen without loneliness, not easily nor without pains to stake out the circle, the heavy shadows, the great light. I choose to be the figure in that light, half - blotted by darkness, something moving across that space, the color of stone greeting the moon, yet more than stone: a woman. I choose to walk here. And to draw this circle.