
I believe this hype reflects a safety-first concept of “love”. It is love comprehensively insured against all risks: you will have love, but will have assessed the prospective relationship so thoroughly, will have selected your partner so carefully by searching online - by obtaining, of course, a photo, details of his or her tastes, date of birth, horoscope sign, etc. — and putting it all in the mix you can tell yourself: “This is a risk-free option!” That’s their pitch and it’s fascinating that the ad campaign should adopt it. Clearly, inasmuch as love is a pleasure almost everyone is looking for, the thing that gives meaning and intensity to almost everyone’s life, I am convinced that love cannot be a gift given on the basis of a complete lack of risk.
It’s all rather the same scenario. “Zero deaths” war, “zero risks” love, nothing random, no chance encounters. Backed as it is, with all the resources of a wide-scale advertising campaign, I see it as the first threat to love, what I would call the safety threat. After all, it’s not so very different to an arranged marriage. Not done in the name of family order and hierarchy by despotic parents, but in the name of safety for the individuals involved, through advance agreements that avoid randomness, chance encounters and in the end any existential poetry, due to the categorical absence of risks.
The second threat love faces is to deny that it is at all important. The counterpoint to the safety threat is the idea that love is only a variant of rampant hedonism and the wide range of possible enjoyment. The aim is to avoid any immediate challenge, any deep and genuine experience of the otherness from which love is woven. 
Safety-first love, like everything governed by the norm of safety, implies the absence of risks for people who have a good insurance policy, a good army, a good police force, a good psychological take on personal hedonism, and all risks for those on the opposite side.
You must have noticed how we are always being told that things are being dealt with “for your comfort and safety”, from potholes in pavements to police patrols in the metro. Love confronts two enemies, essentially: safety guaranteed by an insurance policy and the comfort zone limited by regulated pleasures.
At the ethical level, love is genuine and demonstrates its own seriousness. The ethical level can lead the way to the highest level, the religious level, if the absolute value of the commitment is endorsed by marriage. Marriage is thus conceived not as a strengthening of the social bond against the perils of wayward love, but as the institution that channels genuine love towards its fundamental destination. The final transfiguration of love becomes possible when “the Ego plunges through its own transparency to meet the power that has created it”: that is, when, thanks to the experience of love, the Ego roots itself in its divine source. Love then moves beyond seduction and, through the serious mediation of marriage, becomes a way to accede to the super-human. As you can see, philosophy struggles with huge tension. On the one hand, love seen as a natural extravagance of sex arouses a kind of rational suspicion. Conversely, we see an apology for love that borders on religious epiphany.
I think we should approach the question of love from two points that correspond to everyone’s experience. Firstly, love involves a separation or disjuncture based on the simple difference between two people and their infinite subjectivities. This disjuncture is, in most cases, sexual difference. When that isn’t the case, love still ensures that two figures, two different interpretive stances are set in opposition. In other words, love contains an initial element that separates, dislocates and differentiates. You have Two. Love involves Two.
The second point is that precisely because it encompasses a disjuncture, at the moment when this Two appear on stage as such and experience the world in a new way, it can only assume a risky or contingent form. That is what we know as “the encounter”. Love always starts with an encounter. And I would give this encounter the quasi-metaphysical status of an event, namely of something that doesn’t enter into the immediate order of things. There are innumerable examples in art or literature that describe such a starting-point for love. Many stories or novels focus on cases where Two are particularly marked out, when the two lovers don’t belong to the same class, group, clan or country. Romeo and Juliet is clearly the outstanding allegory for this particular disjuncture because this Two belong to enemy camps. We shouldn’t underestimate the power love possesses to slice diagonally through the most powerful oppositions and radical separations. The encounter between two differences is an event, is contingent and disconcerting, “love’s surprises”, theatre yet again. On the basis of this event, love can start and flourish. It is the first, absolutely essential point. This surprise unleashes a process that is basically an experience of getting to know the world. Love isn’t simply about two people meeting and their inward-looking relationship: it is a construction, a life that is being made, no longer from the perspective of One but from the perspective of Two. And that is what I have called a “Two scene”. Personally, I have always been interested in issues of duration and process, and not only starting-points.
I think many people still cling to a romantic conception of love that in a way absorbs love in the encounter. Love is simultaneously ignited, consummated and consumed in the meeting, in a magical moment outside the world as it really is. Something happens that is in the nature of a miracle, an existential intensity, an encounter leading to meltdown. But when things happen that way, we aren’t witnessing a “Two scene” but a “One scene”. It is the meltdown concept of love: the two lovers met and something like a heroic act for One was enacted against the world.
The rights of the heterogeneous are, therefore, simultaneously imperative and limited. Thinking can only begin under the violent impulsion of a case-of-thought; that it start off from a principle is excluded. And each beginning, being a singular impulsion, presents also a singular case. But what begins in this way is destined to repetition: the repetition in which the invariable differential of a resource of power takes effect.
We also know the price to be paid-but is it one for knowledge itself? — the absolute and necessary annulment of any thought of the event and the reduction of the form-multiple of intervention to a definable figure of
universal order.
The reason behind this trade-off, certainly, is that the constructible universe is narrow. If one can put it this way, it contains the least possible multiples. It counts as one with parsimony: real language, discontinuous, is an infinite power, but it never surpasses the denumerable. I said that any direct evaluation of this restriction was impossible. Without the possibility of exhibiting at least one non-constructible set one cannot know to what degree constructivist thought deprives us of multiples, or of the wealth of being. The sacrifice demanded here as the price of measure and order is both intuitively enormous and rationally incalculable.
However, if the framework of the Ideas of the multiple is enlarged by the axiomatic admission of 'large' multiples, of cardinals whose existence cannot be inferred from the resources of the classic axioms alone, one realizes, from this observatory in which being is immediately magnified in its power of infinite excess, that the limitation introduced in the thought of being by the hypothesis of constructibility is quite simply draconian, and that the sacrifice is, literally, unmeasured. One can thus turn to what I termed in Meditation 27 the third orientation of thought: its exercise is to name multiples so transcendent it is expected that they order whatever precedes them, and although it often fails in its own ambition this orientation can be of some use in judging the real effects of the constructivist orientation. From my point of view, which is neither that of the power of language (whose indispensable ascesis I recognize), nor that of transcendence (whose heroism I recognize), there is some pleasure to be had in seeing how each of these orientations provides a diagnostic for the other.
Just as it cannot support the concept of truth (for lack of the event), nor can ontology formalize the concept of the subject. What it can do, however, is help think the type of being to which the fundamental law of the subject corresponds, which is to say forcing. This is the second aspect (after the indiscernible) of the unknown intellectual revolution. This time it is a matter of connecting the being of truth (the generic multiples) to the status of statements (demonstrable or undemonstrable).He thereby shows us that the existence of a subject is compatible with ontology. He ruins any pretension on the part of the subject to declare itself 'contradictory' to the general regime of being. Despite being subtracted from the saying of being (mathematics), the subject is in possibility of being. Cohen's principal result on this point is the following: it is possible, in a quasi-complete fundamental situation, to determine under what conditions such or such a statement is veridical in the generic extension obtained by the addition of an indiscernible part of the situation. The tool for this determination is the study of certain properties of the names: this is inevitable; the names are all that the inhabitants of the situation know of the generic extension, since the latter does not exist in their universe. Let's be quite clear about the complexity of this problem: if we have the statement A(a), the supposition that a belongs to the generic extension is unrepresentable in the fundamental situation.