
Wafting lavenderesque from cracks in the cosmic egg, pleasure recalls indulgence, mild intoxication, a polymorphous romp well shy of the imperatives of desire. Pleasure comes and goes; it manifests in the grain, the bubbling up, the tingle, the fractional slip. Compared to desire, pleasure is hedonistic, rambling, familiar, and, according to some, subject to manipulation by various economic and political regimes. Freud tells us that pleasure must be overridden in the name of a survivalism that always asks us to delay, delay, delay. Desire, on the other hand, must be crushed and cannot be delayed as its very structure is delay, and delay only intensiﬁes desire. Desire drags and feeds on its own deferrals. It is a condition of excitation that seeks more excitation. Desire insists, and the one who contains the insistence of desire commands. Desire initiates power struggles. Mostly, desire wins. This victory constitutes desire’s purchase in contemporary critical and literary theory. Desire is what cannot be calculated, attained, ﬁxed, or stabilized.Desire promulgates a necessary and ongoing failure of the agency of the Western privileged subject. It functions as a line of movement that disrupts and redirects. While less imperious than desire, pleasure, as satisfaction, as resolution, as a lowering of thermodynamic tension, is nevertheless dangerous. It connotes the cessation of anxiety, a cessation of the vigilance deemed necessary to ward oﬀ a future of genocide, murder, assimilation, colonialism, projection, and introjection. We are lulled by pleasure into literal self-satisfaction; we are driven by desire into recognitions of that which we cannot maintain or deﬁnitively obtain. Pleasure gratiﬁes; desire becomes.Within the Tantric tradition of which I am an initiate, both desire and pleasure are the engines of creation. Nothing is rejected. Nothing is renounced. A self-aware energy, pulsing with spontaneous desire, emanates the manifest universe and then experiences pleasure upon encountering itself in all its multiplicity. I desire. I anticipate. The other appears. We recognize each other. I taste her sweetness. We are distinct; we are one body. An identity inside a diﬀerence; a diﬀerence inside an identity. An expression, an emanation. Beyond resolution. Paradoxical. Trembling. The Tantras or written scriptures most often describe this trembling, this creation inside the edge of the multiplicity and oneness, as delight. Delight taken in the act of assimilation, in the act of eating, may be the paradigmatic transgression for post–World War II ethical theory and its heir, posthumanism. Derrida writes that we will eat, we cannot help but eat. The ethical question is: How may we eat well? Certainly the colonialisms, genocides, and violent appropriations associated with Western humanism are cases of eating badly. For Derrida, eating well consists of respect, caution, a feeling for or of justice, and a hospitality that welcomes unconditionally while preserving the strangeness of the meal, the otherness of the other. Resonating with much postwar Continental philosophy, and particularly in his later work, there is little room for gustatory pleasure.Over thousands of years, Tantra has demonstrated an extraordinary ﬂexibility, adaptability, and mutability. At the same, its most “Tantric” features have survived relatively unscathed. It has managed to evade the grasp of both historians and those who seek to statically interpret its metaphysics and practices, continually breaking out of the conﬁnes of coherent deﬁnition and, in keeping with the eleventh-century synthesis, expanding into and absorbing aspects of other traditions. In a hopeful sense, this history gives a degree of license to practitioners and scholars who come to the tradition at this late date and from far-ﬂung locations: the capaciousness and catholicism of Tantra is inherent in its most deeply held beliefs and its metaphysics.  Given Tantra’s mutability and its durability, and without abandoning my responsibility to attempt to represent the tradition with integrity and due eﬀort, I ﬁnd it humorous to contemplate how the tradition might assimilate us, the producers and readers of this book. Indian Tantra points both deconstruction and posthumanism toward a thinking of the self as a zone of relationality, a zone of expressions or immanent emanations. These are not self-possessed expressions; they come and go, expand and contract, mutate, modulate, travel. Within this zone of relationality, the categories of self and other are rendered undecidable, are suspended but not dismissed, and the ontogenic touch of other people is proﬀered under the sign of pleasure. This “subject,” this undecidable zone of relationality, is what I call the avatar body, and my formulation has speciﬁc consequences for the question of conduct. While what counts as ethical conduct in the West is largely conveyed, at least in theory, via gestures of restraining, negotiating, and oﬀering, Tantric ethics are practiced through gestures of opening and holding. Here, “holding” signiﬁes both waiting and literally touching. The disposition (bhāva) of opening and holding acknowledges, expresses, and makes use of the porous, shared, modulated beings we already are. Dharmanidhi Sarasvati: Tantrics don’t believe in reincarnation. You are an inﬁnite event. You think you end here, at your skin? You think this is you? (pinches his arm) You think you will be reincarnated? No. You are an event stretching out, out, out. You are an event without end. Isn’t that beautiful? Avatar Bodies works not against but in the interstices of the vigilance and the anxieties of contact that characterize recent critical and cultural theory. She goes on to say that the vocabulary for articulating any reader’s reparative motive toward a text or a culture has long been so sappy, aestheticizing, defensive, anti-intellectual, or reactionary that it’s no wonder few critics are willing to describe their acquaintance with such motives. My motives are, perhaps sappily, both reparative and science ﬁctional. I want to attend, in the present, to both mourning and the hope embodied in pleasure that in future times, pleasure will assist, and not arrest, the ethical touch. But this text is not only an argument: it is also a performance, a provocation, a conversation, and an indulgence that hopes to enact its most urgent assertions and provide, through taking pleasurable risks, a set of strategies for allowing pleasure to more explicitly enter into one of the scenes of relation that is most dear to it: the scene of academic writing. This text is also an avatar body, a thoroughfare of relationality, one that makes explicit the ways in which, even in academia, no text is possessed by its putative author. It takes pleasure in the company of others, creating a space of reception, a space of inﬂuences, a space of hospitality. This knowledge of how knowledge is created contingently as the result of the embodied process of bringing forth a shared world prevents us from being seduced by the absolute. Such knowledge of knowledge lets us see the other person and open up for him room for existence beside us. This act is called love, or if we prefer a milder expression, the acceptance of the other person beside us in our daily living. Here we have the hope of much postwar ethical thinking: that the understanding that no truth is absolute, that constitutive diﬀerences created through distinct but coupled processes of worlding must compel us to ethics, to what Varela calls love or acceptance. Permanently ithyphallic, yet perpetually chaste: how is one to explain such a phenomenon?My guru encourages us to experience our reactions, qualities, and emotions as belonging to a reservoir of energies, of becomings that ﬂicker inside an edge of belonging and no-belonging, of the personal and the impersonal, the multiple and the One. Instructions: Replace “I am” with “There is.” There is longing . . . There is cold . . . There is fear. . . This seeming depersonalization brings, paradoxically, an enlarged sense of self that participates in itself, with itself, within a shared world. No notions such as: “I am happy,” “I am miserable” or “I am attached” (exist independently ). They all clearly reside elsewhere, namely, (in that) which threads through (all) the states of pleasure and the rest. In practice, repeating one mantra causes it to automatically convert to the other: She that I am, I am He. The mantra expresses the cosmos as a gendered relation, a dual/nondual modulation, a sexual, expressive movement of folding and unfolding. She that I Am I Am He She that I Am He I Am I Am . . . Deleuze and Guattari, in one of their most poignant passages, describe a celibate machine: a machine-body that succeeds the paranoiac machinebody of psychoanalysis. Sartre’s human-turned-precision-machine is relieved of the nausea of subjectivity and, frighteningly, all ethical responsibility. This new machine, like Roquentin, the hero of Nausea and Robinson on the island, is also cured, however it accrues more positive, indeed ecstatic, connotations and achieves a genuine consummation . . . a pleasure that can rightly be called autoerotic, or rather automatic: the nuptial celebration of a new alliance, a new birth, a radiant ecstasy, as though the eroticism of the machine liberated other forces. This machine is contiguous with the body without organs, a body of intensities , becomings, transitions, liberated from the oppressive stratiﬁcations of the doxic organism and psychoanalytic master narratives. The mantra of this celibate machine is I feel. There is a schizophrenic experience of intensive quantities in their pure state, to a point that is almost unbearable — a celibate misery and glory experienced to the fullest, like a cry suspended between life and death, an intense feeling of transition, states of pure, naked intensity stripped of all shape and form . . . an I feel at an even deeper level . . . an “I feel that I am becoming a woman,” “that I am becoming a god,” and so on. For the schizophrenic, this is a harrowing , emotionally overwhelming experience, which brings the schizo as close as possible to matter, to a burning, living center of matter. 