Aristotle
We may lay it down that Pleasure is a movement, a movement by which the soul as a whole is consciously brought into its normal state of being; and that Pain is the opposite. 
In educating the young we steer them by the rudders of pleasure and pain. 
Where perception is, there also are pain and pleasure, and where these are, there, of necessity, is desire.
We assume therefore that moral virtue is the quality of acting in the best way in relation to pleasures and pains, and that vice is the opposite.
A proposition, then, is a statement affirming or denying something of something; and this is either universal or particular or indefinite. By universal I mean a statement that something belongs to all or none of something; by particular that it belongs to some or not to some or not to all; by indefinite that it does or does not belong, without any mark of being universal or particular, e.g. ‘contraries are subjects of the same science’, or ‘pleasure is not good’. A demonstrative proposition differs from a dialectical one, because a demonstrative proposition is the assumption of one of two contradictory statements (the demonstrator does not ask for his premiss, but lays it down), whereas a dialectical proposition choice between two contradictories. But this will make no difference to the production of a deduction in either case; for both the demonstrator and the dialectician argue deductively after assuming that something does or does not belong to something. Therefore a deductive proposition without qualification will be an affirmation or denial of something concerning something in the way we have described; it will be demonstrative, if it is true and assumed on the basis of the first principles of its science; it will be dialectical if it asks for a choice between two contradictories (if one is enquiring) or if it assumes what is apparent and reputable, as we said in the Topics (if one is deducing). Thus as to what a proposition is and how deductive, demonstrative and dialectical propositions differ, we have now said enough for our present purposes—we shall discuss the matter with precision later on.
A dialectical problem is a subject of inquiry that contributes either to choice and avoidance, or to truth and knowledge, and does that either by itself, or as a help to the solution of some other such problem. It must, moreover, be something on which either people hold no opinion either way, or most people hold a contrary opinion to the wise, or the wise to most people, or each of them among themselves. For some problems it is useful to know only with a view to choice or avoidance, e.g. whether pleasure is to be chosen or not, while some it is useful to know merely with a view to knowledge, e.g. whether the universe is eternal or not; others, again, are not useful in themselves for either of these purposes, but yet help us in regard to some such problems; for there are many things which we do not wish to know in themselves, but for the sake of other things, in order that through them we may come to know something else. Problems also include questions in regard to which deductions conflict (the difficulty then being whether so-and-so is so or not, there being convincing arguments for both views); others also in regard to which we have no argument because they are so vast, and we find it difficult to give our reasons, e.g. the question whether the universe is eternal or no; for into questions of that kind too it is possible to inquire.
Moreover, see if one use of a term has a contrary, while another has absolutely none; e.g. the pleasure of drinking has a contrary in the pain of thirst, whereas the pleasure of seeing that the diagonal is incommensurate with the side has none, so that pleasure is used in more than one way. To love also, used of the frame of mind, has to hate as its contrary, while as used of the physical activity it has none; clearly, therefore, to love is homonymous.
Of problems some are universal, others particular. Universal problems are such as ‘Every pleasure is good’ and ‘No pleasure is good’; particular problems are such as ‘Some pleasure is good’ and ‘Some pleasure is not good.’ The methods of establishing and overthrowing a view universally are common to both kinds of problems; for when we have proved that a predicate belongs in every case, we shall also have proved that it belongs in some cases. Likewise, also, if we prove that it does not belong in any case, we shall also have proved that it does not belong in every case. First, then, we must speak of the methods of overthrowing a view universally, because such are common to both universal and particular problems, and because people more usually introduce theses asserting a predicate than denying it, while those who argue with them overthrow it.
If the problem is put in a particular and not in a universal form, in the first place the universal constructive or destructive commonplace rules that have been given may all be brought into use. For in demolishing or establishing a thing universally we also prove it in particular; for if it belongs to all, it belongs also to some, and if to none, not to some. Especially handy and of general application are the commonplace rules that are drawn from the opposites and co-ordinates and inflexions; for it is equally reputable to claim that if all pleasure is good, then also all pain is evil, and that if some pleasure is good, then also some pain is evil. Moreover, if some form of perception is not a capacity, then also some form of failure of perception is not a failure of capacity. Also, if some objects of belief are objects of knowledge, then also some form of belief is knowledge. Again, if what happens unjustly is in some cases good, then some unjust things are good. Also, if what is done with pleasure is in some cases objectionable, then pleasure is in some cases an objectionable thing. On the same principle, also, if what is pleasant is in some cases beneficial, then pleasure is in some cases good. The case is the same also as regards the things that destroy, and the processes of generation and destruction. For if some things that destroy pleasure or knowledge are good, then pleasure or knowledge is in some cases an evil thing. Likewise, also, if the destruction of knowledge is in some cases a good thing or its production an evil thing, then knowledge will be in some cases an evil thing; e.g. if for a man to forget his disgraceful conduct is a good thing, or to remember it an evil thing, then the knowledge of his disgraceful conduct is an evil thing. The same holds also in other cases; for all are equally reputable.
Moreover you should judge by means of greater or less or like degree; for  if some member of another genus exhibits such and such a character in a more marked degree, while no member of that genus exhibits that character at all, then the object in question will not exhibit it; e.g. if some form of knowledge is good in a greater degree than pleasure, while no form of knowledge is good, then pleasure is not good either. Also, you should judge by a less or like degree in the same way; for so you will find it possible both to demolish and to establish a view, except that whereas both are possible by means of like degrees, by means of a less degree it is possible only to establish, not to overthrow. For if a certain capacity is good in a like degree to knowledge, and a certain capacity is good, then also is knowledge; while if no capacity is good, then neither is knowledge. If, too, a certain capacity is good in a less degree than knowledge, and a certain capacity is good, then so also is knowledge; but if no capacity is good, there is no necessity that no form of knowledge either should be good. Clearly, then, it is only possible to establish a view by means of a less degree.
If the problem is indefinite, it is possible to overthrow it in only one way; e.g. if a man has asserted that some pleasure is good or is not good, without any further definition. For if he has asserted that some pleasure is good, you must prove universally that no pleasure is good, if the proposition in question is to be demolished. And likewise, also, if he has asserted that some pleasure is not good you must prove universally that all pleasure is good: it is impossible to demolish it in any other way. For if we prove that some pleasure is not good or is good, the proposition in question is not yet demolished. It is clear, then, that it is possible to demolish an indefinite statement in one way, whereas it can be established in two ways; for whether we prove universally that all pleasure is good, or that some pleasure is good, the proposition in question will have been proved. Likewise, also, supposing we are required to argue that some pleasure is not good, if we prove that no pleasure is good or that some pleasure is not good, we shall have produced an argument in both ways, both universally and in particular, to show that some pleasure is not good. If, on the other hand, the thesis is definite, it will be possible to demolish it in two ways; e.g. if it is maintained that it is an attribute of some pleasure to be good, while of some it is not; for whether it is proved that all pleasure, or that no pleasure, is good, the proposition in question will have been demolished. If, however, he has stated that only one single pleasure is good, it is possible to demolish it in three ways; for by proving that all pleasure, or that no pleasure, or that more than one pleasure, is good, we shall have demolished the statement in question. If the thesis is still more definite, e.g. that prudence alone of the virtues is knowledge, there are four ways of demolishing it; for if it is proved that all virtue is knowledge, or that no virtue is, or that some other virtue (e.g. justice) is, or that prudence itself is not knowledge, the proposition in question will have been demolished.