
Freedom will prove to have been merely an interlude. Freedom is felt when passing from one way of living to another – until this too turns out to be a form of coercion. Then, liberation gives way to renewed subjugation. Such is the destiny of the subject; literally, the ‘one who has been cast down’.
Today, we do not deem ourselves subjugated subjects, but rather projects: always refashioning and reinventing ourselves. A sense of freedom attends passing from the state of subject to that of project. All the same, this projection amounts to a form of compulsion and constraint – indeed, to a more efficient kind of subjectivation and subjugation. As a project deeming itself free of external and alien limitations, the I is now subjugating itself to internal limitations and self-constraints, which are taking the form of compulsive achievement and optimization.
We are living in a particular phase of history: freedom itself is bringing forth compulsion and constraint. The freedom of Can generates even more coercion than the disciplinarian Should, which issues commandments and prohibitions. Should has a limit. In contrast, Can has none. Thus, the compulsion entailed by Can is unlimited. And so we find ourselves in a paradoxical situation. Technically, freedom means the opposite of coercion and compulsion. Being free means being free from constraint. But now freedom itself, which is supposed to be the opposite of constraint, is producing coercion. Psychic maladies such as depression and burnout express a profound crisis of freedom. They represent pathological signs that freedom is now switching over into manifold forms of compulsion.
Although the achievement-subject deems itself free, in reality it is a slave. In so far as it willingly exploits itself without a master, it is an absolute slave. There is no master forcing the achievement-subject to work. Yet all the same, it is absolutizing bare life and labour. Bare life and labour form two sides of the same coin. Health represents the ideal of bare life. Today’s neoliberal slave lacks the sovereignty – indeed, the freedom – of the master who, according to Hegel’s dialectic, performs no labour at all and only enjoys. For Hegel, the sovereignty of the master derives from his rising above bare life and risking death itself in the process. Such excess – living and enjoying beyond measure – is alien to the slave, who worries only about bare life. But counter to what Hegel assumed, labouring does not make the slave free. The slave remains enslaved to labour. Now, the slave is forcing the master to work too. Today’s dialectic of master and slave means the totalization of labour.
As the entrepreneur of its own self, the neoliberal subject has no capacity for relationships with others that might be free of purpose. Nor do entrepreneurs know what purpose-free friendship would even look like. Originally, being free meant being among friends. ‘Freedom’ and ‘friendship’ have the same root in Indo-European languages. Fundamentally, freedom signifies a relationship. A real feeling of freedom occurs only in a fruitful relationship – when being with others brings happiness. But today’s neoliberal regime leads to utter isolation; as such, it does not really free us at all. Accordingly, the question now is whether we need to redefine freedom – to reinvent it – in order to escape from the fatal dialectic that is changing freedom into coercion.
Neoliberalism represents a highly efficient, indeed an intelligent, system for exploiting freedom. Everything that belongs to practices and expressive forms of liberty – emotion, play and communication – comes to be exploited. It is inefficient to exploit people against their will. Allo-exploitation yields scant returns. Only when freedom is exploited are returns maximized.
Capital reproduces by entering into relations with itself as another form of Capital: through free competition. It copulates with the Other of itself by way of individual freedom. Capital grows inasmuch as people engage in free competition. Hereby, individual freedom amounts to servitude inasmuch as Capital lays hold of it and uses it for its own propagation. That is, Capital exploits individual freedom in order to breed: ‘It is not the individuals who are set free by free competition; it is, rather, capital which is set free.
The freedom of Capital achieves self-realization by way of individual freedom. In the process, individuals degrade into the genital organs of Capital. Individual freedom lends it an ‘automatic’ subjectivity of its own, which spurs it to reproduce actively. In this way, Capital continuously ‘brings forth living offspring’. Today, individual freedom is taking on excessive forms; ultimately, this amounts to nothing other than the excess of Capital itself.
Consequently, it is often assumed that his ethics of the self stands in opposition to power and domination.
Today, talk of feeling and emotion has grown inflationary. Many academic disciplines are researching emotion. All of a sudden, the human being no longer counts as an animal rationale; instead, man is a creature of sentiment. That said, hardly anyone bothers to ask where this sudden interest in emotions came from. Scientific emotion-researchers are clearly not reflecting much on their own activities. Thus, they have failed to remark that the emotional ‘boom’ stems from an economic process, above all.
Worse still, utter conceptual confusion prevails. ‘Emotion’, ‘feeling’ and ‘affect’ seem interchangeable for many researchers.
Yet feeling and emotion are not identical. We speak, for instance, of a feeling for language, athletics or other people – Sprachgefühl, Ballgefühl, Mitgefühl (respectively: linguistic aptitude, a knack for sports and compassion). One may ‘have a feel for language’ or ‘feel for others’, but no one has an ‘emotion for language’ or experiences ‘com-emotion’. There is no such thing as ‘language-affect’ or ‘com-affect’ either. Mourning is a feeling too. But it sounds strange to speak of an ‘affect of mourning’ or an ‘emotion of mourning’. Affect and emotion refer to strictly subjective matters, whereas feeling refers to something objective.
Feeling can be recounted. It has narrative length, or breadth. Neither affect nor emotion admits an account. The crisis of feelings that can be observed in contemporary theatre also represents a crisis of giving-account (Erzählung). Today, the narrative theatre of feelings is yielding to a clamorous theatre of affects. Because narrative is lacking, an affective mass gets piled onto the stage. But, in contrast to feeling, affect does not open up space. Instead, it steers a linear path in order to discharge, to unload itself. The digital medium is an affect-medium too. Digital communication fosters the immediate release of affect: catharsis (Affektabfuhr). Simply on the basis of its temporality, digital communication conveys affect more than it transmits feeling. Shitstorms are streams of affect. They represent exemplary phenomena of digital communication.
Feelings are constative. For instance, we say: ‘I have a feeling that.’ In contrast, it is impossible to say, ‘I have an affect (or an emotion) that.’ Emotions are not constative, but performative. They refer to actions and deeds. Furthermore, they are intentional and goal-oriented. Feelings, on the other hand, do not necessarily display an intentional structure. Often, the feeling of anxiety has no concrete object. That is what makes anxiety different from fear, which has an intentional structure. Nor is a ‘feel’ – that is, a sense – for language intentional. Its non-intentionality is what distinguishes it from linguistic expression, which, because it ex-presses, is e-motive. A feeling of cosmic oneness – an oceanic sense of the world (ein kosmisches Mitgefühl, ein ozeanisches Welt-Gefühl) – that does not focus on anything or anyone in particular is also possible. Neither emotions nor affects achieve the dimensions that characterize feelings. Emotions and affects are expressions of subjectivity.
Feelings also have a different temporality than emotions. They admit duration. Emotions prove significantly more fleeting and short-lived than feelings. Likewise, affect is often limited to a single moment. In contrast to feelings, emotions do not represent a state. The emotion does not stand. There is no emotion of rest. A feeling of calm is easy to conceive. In contrast, the expression ‘emotional state’ has a paradoxical ring. Emotions are dynamic, situative and performative. Emotional capitalism exploits precisely these qualities. Feelings, in contrast, cannot be readily exploited inasmuch as they have no performativity. Finally, affects are not performative so much as eruptive; they lack performative directionality.
Atmosphere – or mood (Stimmung) – differs from both feeling and emotion. “It possesses even more objectivity than feeling. Objectively, a space or room can harbour any given atmosphere. An atmosphere or mood expresses a way-it-is. In contrast, emotions derive from deviations from the way-it-is. For instance, a place may diffuse a friendly mood. This atmosphere is something wholly objective. But there is no such thing as a friendly emotion or a friendly affect. Atmosphere/mood is neither intentional nor performative. It is the element where one happens to find oneself (etwas, worin man sich befindet). It represents a state of being or state of mind (Befindlichkeit). As such, atmosphere is static and constellative – whereas emotion is dynamic and performative. Where distinguishes a state, a disposition; in contrast whither – a direction – defines emotion. Feeling, in turn, is a matter of wherefore: ‘why’.
