
One should always be drunk. That's all that matters...But with what? With wine, with poetry, or with virtue, as you chose. But get drunk. 
The beautiful is always bizarre. Strangeness is a necessary ingredient in beauty. Remembering is only a new form of suffering. 
Be always drunken. Nothing else matters: that is the only question. If you would not feel the horrible burden of Time weighing on your shoulders and crushing you to the earth, be drunken continually.
Drunken with what? With wine, with poetry, or with virtue, as you will. But be drunken.
And if sometimes, on the stairs of a palace, or on the green side of a ditch, or in the dreary solitude of your own room, you should awaken and the drunkenness be half or wholly slipped away from you, ask of the wind, or of the wave, or of the star, or of the bird, or of the clock, of whatever flies, or sighs, or rocks, or sings, or speaks, ask what hour it is; and the wind, wave, star, bird, clock will answer you: "It is the hour to be drunken! 
Everything that gives pleasure has its reason. To scorn the mobs of those who go astray is not the means to bring them around. All beauties, like all possible phenomena, have something of the eternal and something of the ephemeral — of the absolute and the particular.
If the word doesn't exist, invent it; but first be sure it doesn't exist.  
There are women who inspire you with the desire to conquer them and to take your pleasure of them; but this one fills you only with the desire to die slowly beneath her gaze.
I have cultivated my hysteria with pleasure and terror.
The Devil pulls the strings which make us dance; we find delight in the most loathsome things; some furtherance of Hell each new day brings, and yet we feel no horror in that rank advance.
Everything, alas, is an abyss, — actions, desires, dreams, words!
If rape, poison, daggers, arson have not yet embroidered with their pleasing designs the banal canvas of our pitiable lives, it is because our souls have not enough boldness.
Oh pain! Oh pain! Time eats life.
The observer is a prince who enjoys his incognito everywhere. The lover of life makes the world his family, just as the lover of the fair sex devises his family from all discovered, discoverable and undiscoverable beauties; as the lover of pictures lives in an enchanted society of painted dreams on canvas.
The more a man cultivates the arts the less he fornicates. It is necessary to work, if not from inclination, at least from despair. As it turns out, work is less boring than amusing oneself. There are in every man, at all times, two simultaneous tendencies, one toward God, the other toward Satan.
There exist only three beings worthy of respect: the priest, the soldier, the poet. To know, to kill and to create. Other men are taxable and exploitable, made for the stable, that is to say, to exercise so called professions. Unable to do away with love, the Church found a way to decontaminate it by creating marriage.
Women do not know how to separate the soul from the body. Whatever is created by the spirit is more alive than matter. The act of love strongly resembles torture or surgery. What is intoxicating about bad taste is the aristocratic pleasure of offensiveness. There is in a word, in a verb, something sacred which forbids us from using it recklessly. To handle a language skillfully is to practice a kind of evocative sorcery.
We are weighed down, every moment, by the conception and the sensation of Time. And there are but two means of escaping and forgetting this nightmare: pleasure and work. Pleasure consumes us. Work strengthens us. Let us choose. 
'It is the hour to be drunken! To escape being the martyred slaves of time, be ceaselessly drunk. On wine, on poetry, or on virtue, as you wish.
Whether you come from heaven or hell, what does it matter, O Beauty!   
Since of all women You have chosen me to be repugnant to my sorry spouse, and since I cannot cast this misshapen monster into the flames, like an old love letter, I shall spew the hatred with which you crush me down on the cursed instrument of your malevolence, and twist so hard this wretched tree yhat it cannot put forth its pestilential buds!'
Thus she gulps down the froth of her hatred, and not understanding the eternal designs, herself prepares deep down in Gehenna the pyre reserved for a mother's crimes.
However, protected by an unseen Angel, the outcast child is enrapt by the sun, and in all that he eats, in everything he drinks, he finds sweet ambrosia and rubiate nectar. He cavorts with the wind, converses with the clouds, and singing, transported, goes the way of the cross; and the Angel who follows him on pilgrimage weeps to see him as carefree as a bird. All those whom he would love watch him with fear, or, emboldened by his tranquility, emulously attempt to wring a groan from him and test on him their inhumanity.
With the bread and the wine intended for his mouth they mix ashes and foul spittle, and, hypocrites, cast away what he touches and feel guilty if they have trod in his footprints.
His wife goes about the market-places crying: 'Since he finds me fair enough to adore, I shall imitate the idols of old, and like them I want to be regilded; I shall get drunk with spikenard, incense, myrrh, and with genuflections, viands and wine, to see if laughingly I can usurp in an admiring heart the homage due to God!
And when I tire of these impious jokes, I shall lay upon him my strong, my dainty hand; and my nails, like harpies' talons, will cut a path straight to his heart.
That heart which flutters like a fledgling bird I'll tear, all bloody, from his breast, and scornfully I'll throw it in the dust to sate the hunger of my favorite hound!'
To Heaven, where his eye sees a radiant throne, piously, the Poet, serene, raises his arms, and the dazzling brightness of his illumined mind hides from his sight the raging mob: — 'Praise be to You, O God, who send us suffering as a divine remedy for our impurities and as the best and the purest essence to prepare the strong for holy ecstasies!
I know that you reserve a place for the Poet within the blessed ranks of the holy Legions, and that you invite him to the eternal feast of the Thrones, the Virtues, and the Dominations.
I know that suffering is the sole nobility which earth and hell shall never mar, and that to weave my mystic crown, you must tax every age and every universe.
But the lost jewels of ancient Palmyra, the unfound metals, the pearls of the sea, set by Your own hand, would not be adequate for that diadem of dazzling splendor, for that crown will be made of nothing but pure light drawn from the holy source of primal rays, whereof our mortal eyes, in their fullest brightness,  are no more than tarnished, mournful mirrors!'
His night-work pleased him, his deed and its honor.  
Though your mischievous eyebrows give you a singular air,
Not that of an angel, sorceress with Siren's eyes, I adore you, my madcap, my ineffable passion! With the pious devotion  of a priest for his idol. Your stiff tresses are scented with the desert and forest, your head assumes the poses  of the enigma and key. Perfume lingers about your flesh like incense about a censer; you charm like the evening, tenebrous, passionate nymph.
Ah! the most potent philtres are weaker than your languor, and you know the caresses that make the dead live again! 
Your haunches are enamored of your back and your bosom and you delight the cushions with your languorous poses.
Sometimes, to alleviate your mysterious passion, you lavish, resolutely, your bites and your kisses; you tear me open, dark beauty, with derisive laughter, and then look at my heart with eyes as soft as moonlight
Under your satin slippers, under your dear silken feet, I place all my happiness, my genius and destiny, my soul brought to life by you by your clear light and color, explosion of heat in my dark Siberia! 
Once in that marvelous and unremembered time when theologic thought was flowering at its prime, a pious metaphysician, the pundit of his day, he who could move the hearts of murderers, so they say, having attained to a most fearful pitch of grace by curious pathways he himself could scarcely trace, for all his subtlety of logic — this austere and venerable person (like one who climbs a sheer peak unperturbed, but at the top grows dizzy) cried, suddenly overtaken with satanic pride: 'Jesus, my little Jesus! I have exalted you into a very Titan — yet wielding as I do the wand of dialectic, I could have made you shrink to fetus-like proportions and fade away, I think!'
He thought no more, for instantly his reason cracked. The noontide of this great intelligence was blacked out. Elemental chaos rolled through this serene temple, where so much order and opulence had been. From its gold floor to its groined ceiling it grew dim: silence and utter night installed themselves in him, as in an antique dungeon whereof the key is lost. And from that day, through rain and snow, through sleet and frost, not knowing spring from winter and too mad to care, he roamed about gesticulating, with the air of an old suit of underclothes hung out to dry, and made the children laugh whenever he went by.
O dangerous woman, O alluring climates! Will I also adore your snow and your hoar-frost, and can I draw from your implacable winter pleasures keener than iron or ice?
Not a word. Could my soul be dead? 'Is it then that you have reached such a degree of lethargy that you acquiesce in your sickness? If so, let us flee to lands that are analogues of death. I see how it is, poor soul! There the sun only grazes the earth obliquely, and the slow alternation of light and darkness suppresses variety and increases monotony, that half-nothingness. There we shall be able to take long baths of darkness, while for our amusement the aurora borealis shall send us its rose-coloured rays that are like the reflection of Hell's own fireworks!' At last my soul explodes, and wisely cries out to me: 'No matter where! No matter where! As long as it's out  of the world!'