A black woman and a small beige one talk about their bodies. About putting a piece of their anatomy in their pockets upon entering any given room. When entering a room full of soldiers who fear hearts, you put your heart in your back pocket, the black woman explains. It is important, not to intimidate. The soldiers wear guns, not in their back pockets. You let the heart fester there. You let the heart seethe. You let the impatience of the heart build and build until the power of the heart hidden begins to be felt in the room. Until the absence of the heart begins to take on the shape of a presence. Until the soldiers look at you and begin to beg you to open up your heart to them, so anxious are they to see what it is they fear they fear. Do not be seduced. Do not forget for a minute that the soldiers wear guns. Hang onto your heart. Ask them first what they'll give up to see it. Tell them that they can begin with their arms. Only then will you begin to negotiate. 
To touch her skin felt thick like hide, not like flesh and blood when an arm is raised the blue veins shine rivers running underground with shadow depth, and tone. No, her skin had turned on her in the light of things. In the light of Black women and children beaten/hanged/raped strangled murdered in Boston Atlanta in California where redneck hunters coming home with empty white hands go off to fill 'em with Black Man. 
Her skin had turned in the light of these things. Stuck to her now like a flat immovable paste spread grey over a life. 
She had never been ashamed of her face. Her lust. yes Her bad grammar. yes Even her unforgiving ways but never, her face recently taken to blushing as if the blood wanted to swallow the flesh. Bleed through guilt by association complicity to the crime. Bleed through 
Born to lead. 
Born to love. 
Born to live. 
Bleed through and flood the joint with a hatred so severe people went white with shock and dying. No, she had never been ashamed of her face not like this grabbing her own two cheeks her fingers pressed together as if to hold between them the thin depth of color. 
See this face? Wearing it like an accident of birth. It was a scar sealing up a woman, now darkened by desire. See this face? Where do you take this hate to Iunch? How to get over this one. 
she called it, the black pearl of my conviction the security of knowing at least our fear is unchangeable. at the beach in november, there is a woman with a thin silk robe draped around her bare shoulders the rest of bare. too. and a child coming after her. naked on the beach and flaunting it, waving the silk robe up around her head, leaping over its skirt, dancing. the child humming to himself, like accompaniment. three times, I imagine myself coming up to her. taking her by the wrist, explaining to her how she should cover up, not expose herself so, not joyfully like this. passing the woman, I find a thin stone on the shore. I lick the sand and salt clean from it, then rub it dry and dull on the thigh of my pants. 
You call it (am pu tation) but even after the cut they say the toes still itch the body remembers the knee, gracefully bending she reaches down to find her leg gone the shape under the blanket dropping off suddenly, irregularly it is a shock, Woolf says that by putting into words we make it whole still, I feel the mutilated body swimming in side stroke pumping twice as hard for the lack of body, pushing through your words which hold no water for me. 