
Midway upon the journey of our life I found myself within a forest dark, for the straightforward pathway had been lost. Ah me! how hard a thing it is to say what was this forest savage, rough, and stern, which in the very thought renews the fear. So bitter is it, death is little more; but of the good to treat, which there I found, speak will I of the other things I saw there. 
Thus I descended out of the first circle down to the second, that less space begirds, and so much greater dole, that goads to wailing. There standeth Minos horribly, and snarls; examines the transgressions at the entrance; judges, and sends according as he girds him. I say, that when the spirit evil-born cometh before him, wholly it confesses; and this discriminator of transgressions seeth what place in Hell is meet for it; girds himself with his tail as many times as grades he wishes it should be thrust down. Always before him many of them stand; they go by turns each one unto the judgment; they speak, and hear, and then are downward hurled. "O thou, that to this dolorous hostelry comest," said Minos to me, when he saw me, leaving the practice of so great an office, "Look how thou enterest, and in whom thou trustest; let not the portal's amplitude deceive thee." And unto him my Guide: "Why criest thou too? Do not impede his journey fate-ordained; it is so willed there where is power to do that which is willed; and ask no further question." And now begin the dolesome notes to grow audible unto me; now am I come there where much lamentation strikes upon me. I came into a place mute of all light, which bellows as the sea does in a tempest, if by opposing winds 't is combated. The infernal hurricane that never rests hurtles the spirits onward in its rapine; whirling them round, and smiting, it molests them. When they arrive before the precipice, there are the shrieks, the plaints, and the laments, there they blaspheme the puissance divine. I understood that unto such a torment the carnal malefactors were condemned, who reason subjugate to appetite. And as the wings of starlings bear them on in the cold season in large band and full, so doth that blast the spirits maledict; it hither, thither, downward, upward, drives them; no hope doth comfort them for evermore, not of repose, but even of lesser pain. And as the cranes go chanting forth their lays, making in air a long line of themselves, so saw I coming, uttering lamentations, shadows borne onward by the aforesaid stress. Whereupon said I: "Master, who are those people, whom the black air so castigates?" "The first of those, of whom intelligence thou fain wouldst have," then said he unto me,  "The empress was of many languages. to sensual vices she was so abandoned, that lustful she made licit in her law, to remove the blame to which she had been led. 
As turtle-doves, called onward by desire, with open and steady wings to the sweet nest fly through the air by their volition borne, so came they from the band where Dido is, approaching us athwart the air malign, so strong was the affectionate appeal. "O living creature gracious and benignant, who visiting goest through the purple air us, who have stained the world incarnadine, if were the King of the Universe our friend, we would pray unto him to give thee peace, since thou hast pity on our woe perverse. Of what it pleases thee to hear and speak, that will we hear, and we will speak to you, while silent is the wind, as it is now. Sitteth the city, wherein I was born, upon the sea-shore where the Po descends to rest in peace with all his retinue. Love, that on gentle heart doth swiftly seize, seized this man for the person beautiful that was ta'en from me, and still the mode offends me. Love, that exempts no one beloved from loving, seized me with pleasure of this man so strongly, that, as thou seest, it doth not yet desert me; love has conducted us unto one death; Caina waiteth him who quenched our life!" These words were borne along from them to us. As soon as I had heard those souls tormented, I bowed my face, and so long held it down until the Poet said to me: "What thinkest?" When I made answer, I began: "Alas! How many pleasant thoughts, how much desire, conducted these unto the dolorous pass!" Then unto them I turned me, and I spake, and I began: "Thine agonies, Francesca, sad and compassionate to weeping make me. But tell me, at the time of those sweet sighs, by what and in what manner Love conceded, that you should know your dubious desires?" And she to me: "There is no greater sorrow than to be mindful of the happy time in misery, and that thy Teacher knows. But, if to recognise the earliest root of love in us thou hast so great desire, I will do even as he who weeps and speaks. When as we read of the much-longed-for smile being by such a noble lover kissed, this one, who ne'er from me shall be divided, kissed me upon the mouth all palpitating. Galeotto was the book and he who wrote it. that day no farther did we read therein." And all the while one spirit uttered this, the other one did weep so, that, for pity, I swooned away as if I had been dying, and fell, even as a dead body falls.

At the return of consciousness, that closed before the pity of those two relations, which utterly with sadness had confused me, new torments I behold, and new tormented around me, whichsoever way I move, and whichsoever way I turn, and gaze. In the third circle am I of the rain eternal, maledict, and cold, and heavy; its law and quality are never new. Huge hail, and water sombre-hued, and snow, athwart the tenebrous air pour down amain; noisome the earth is, that receiveth this. Cerberus, monster cruel and uncouth, with his three gullets like a dog is barking over the people that are there submerged. Red eyes he has, and unctuous beard and black, and belly large, and armed with claws his hands;  he rends the spirits, flays, and quarters them. Howl the rain maketh them like unto dogs; one side they make a shelter for the other; oft turn themselves the wretched reprobates. When Cerberus perceived us, the great worm! His mouths he opened, and displayed his tusks; not a limb had he that was motionless. And my Conductor, with his spans extended, took of the earth, and with his fists well filled, he threw it into those rapacious gullets. Such as that dog is, who by barking craves, and quiet grows soon as his food he gnaws, for to devour it he but thinks and struggles, the like became those muzzles filth-begrimed of Cerberus the demon, who so thunders over the souls that they would fain be deaf. We passed across the shadows, which subdues the heavy rain-storm, and we placed our feet upon their vanity that person seems. They all were lying prone upon the earth, excepting one, who sat upright as soon as he beheld us passing on before him. "O thou that art conducted through this Hell," He said to me, "recall me, if thou canst; thyself wast made before I was unmade." And I to him: "The anguish which thou hast perhaps doth draw thee out of my remembrance, so that it seems not I have ever seen thee. But tell me who thou art, that in so doleful a place art put, and in such punishment, if some are greater, none is so displeasing." And he to me: "Thy city, which is full of envy so that now the sack runs over, held me within it in the life serene. You citizens were wont to call me Ciacco; for the pernicious sin of gluttony I, as thou seest, am battered by this rain. And I, sad soul, am not the only one, for all these suffer the like penalty for the like sin;" and word no more spake he. I answered him: "Ciacco, thy wretchedness weighs on me so that it to weep invites me; but tell me, if thou knowest, to what shall come the citizens of the divided city; if any there be just; and the occasion tell me why so much discord has assailed it." And he to me: "They, after long contention, will come to bloodshed; and the rustic party will drive the other out with much offence. Then afterwards behoves it this one fall within three suns, and rise again the other by force of him who now is on the coast. High will it hold its forehead a long while, keeping the other under heavy burdens, howe'er it weeps thereat and is indignant. The just are two, and are not understood there; Envy and Arrogance and Avarice are the three sparks that have all hearts enkindled." Here ended he his tearful utterance; and I to him: "I wish thee still to teach me, and make a gift to me of further speech. And others who on good deeds set their thoughts, say where they are, and cause that I may know them; for great desire constraineth me to learn if Heaven doth sweeten them, or Hell envenom." And he: "They are among the blacker souls; a different sin downweighs them to the bottom; if thou so far descendest, thou canst see them. 
After I this had all from me unloosed, as my Conductor had commanded me, I reached it to him, gathered up and coiled, whereat he turned himself to the right side, and at a little distance from the verge, he cast it down into that deep abyss. "It must needs be some novelty respond," I said within myself, "to the new signal the Master with his eye is following so." Ah me! how very cautious men should be with those who not alone behold the act, but with their wisdom look into the thoughts! He said to me: "Soon there will upward come what I await; and what thy thought is dreaming must soon reveal itself unto thy sight." Aye to that truth which has the face of falsehood, a man should close his lips as far as may be, because without his fault it causes shame; but here I cannot; and, Reader, by the notes of this my Comedy to thee I swear, so may they not be void of lasting favour, athwart that dense and darksome atmosphere I saw a figure swimming upward come, marvellous unto every steadfast heart, even as he returns who goeth down sometimes to clear an anchor, which has grappled reef, or aught else that in the sea is hidden, who upward stretches, and draws in his feet.
