
There's a very fine line between pleasure and pain. They are two sides of the same coin, one not existing without the other.
I tug gently on my nipples. ‘Harder,’ Christian urges ... I groan in response and pull harder on my nipples feeling them stiffen and lengthen beneath my touch. This is so ... erotic. My left hand skims over my sex, and I rub in a slow circle, my mouth an O as I pant.
Suddenly he grabs me, tipping me across his lap. With one smooth movement, he angles his body so my torso is resting on the bed beside him. He throws his right leg over both mine and plants his left forearm on the small of my back, holding me down so I cannot move … He places his hand on my naked behind, softly fondling me, stroking around and around with his flat palm. And then his hand is no longer there … and he hits me—hard.
We lie there, panting together, waiting for our breathing to slow. He gently strokes my hair … Boy … I Survived. That wasn’t so bad. I’m more stoic than I thought. My inner goddess is prostrate … well, at least she’s quiet.
At the touch of leather, I quiver and gasp. He walks around me again, trailing the crop around the middle of my body. On his second circuit, he suddenly flicks the crop, and it hits me underneath my behind … against my sex … The shock runs through me, and it’s the sweetest, strangest, hedonistic feeling … My body convulses at the sweet, stinging bite. My nipples harden and elongate from the assault, and I moan loudly, pulling on my leather cuffs.
His arms are wrapped around me, and he’s pulling me to him, hard, fast, gripping my ponytail to tilt my head up, kissing me like his life depends on it … He drags the hair tie painfully out of my hair, but I don’t care. He needs me, for whatever reason, at this point in time, and I have never felt so desired and coveted.
His gray eyes blaze at me, his challenge intrinsic in his stare. His lips are parted - he's waiting, coiled to strike. Desire - acute, liquid and smoldering, combusts deep in my belly.
I am just one ball of sexual, tense, need. He stares down at me for a moment, measuring my need, then he grabs me suddenly and flips me over. It takes me by surprise, and because my hands are tied, I have to support myself on my elbows. He pushes both my knees up the bed so my behind is in the air, and he slaps me hard. Before I can react, he plunges inside me. I cry out - from the slap and from his sudden assault, and I come instantly again and again, falling apart beneath him as he continues to slam deliciously into me. He doesn't stop. I'm spent. I can't take this... and he pounds on and on and on... then I'm building again... surely not... no...
The Dominant and the Submissive agree and acknowledge that all that occurs under the terms of this contract will be consensual, confidential, and subject to the agreed limits and safety procedures set out in this contract. Additional limits and safety procedures may be agreed in writing.
The Submissive accepts the Dominant as her master, with the understanding that she is now the property of the Dominant, to be dealt with as the Dominant pleases during the Term generally but specifically during the Allotted Times and any additional agreed allotted times.
The Safeword "Yellow" will be used to bring to the attention of the Dominant that the Submissive is close to her limit of endurance.
The Safeword "Red" will be used to bring to the attention of the Dominant that the Submissive cannot tolerate any further demands. When this word is said the Dominant's action will cease completely with immediate effect.
Tipping my head back involuntarily, I moan as my fingers find their way into this hair. His tongue is relentless, strong and insistent, laving me - swirling round and round, again and again - non-stop. It’s exquisite, the intensity of feeling -it’s almost painful. My body starts to quicken, and he releases me. What? No! My breathing is ragged as I pant, gazing at him with delicious anticipation. He grabs my face with both hands, holding me firmly, and he kisses me hard, thrusting his tongue into my mouth so I can taste my arousal. 
Ho! My subconscious has her snarky face on. I ignore her and make my way upstairs toward my room so, it is still mine... why? I thought he’d agreed to let me sleep with him. 
I have no idea, no one to compare him too. Closing my eyes, I try to  calm myself down, to connect with my inner sub. She’s there somewhere, hiding behind my inner goddess. 
Anticipation runs bubbling like soda through my veins. What will he do? I take a deep steadying breath, but I cannot deny it, I’m excited, aroused, wet already. This is so... I want to think wrong, but somehow it’s not. It’s right for Christian. It’s what he wants - and after the last few days... after all he’s done, I have to man up and take whatever he decides he wants, whatever he thinks he needs. 
“I’m confused too. I’m trying to work this out. And you and I will know, once and for all, if I can do this. If I can handle this, then maybe you My words fail me, and his eyes widen again. He knows I am referring to the touch thing. For a moment, he looks torn, but then a steely resolve settles on his features, and he narrows his eyes, gazing at me speculatively as if weighing up alternatives. 
Abruptly, he clasps my arm in a firm grip and turns, leading me out of the great room, up the stairs, and to the playroom. Pleasure and pain, reward and punishment - his words from so long ago echo through my mind. “I’ll show you how bad it can be, and you can make your own mind up.” He pauses by the door. “Are you ready for this?” I nod, my mind made up, and I’m vaguely lightheaded, faint as all the blood leaves my face. 
In a quiet part of my brain, I’m vaguely surprised that he hasn’t made me take it off. Holy fuck this is going to hurt... I know. My subconscious has passed out, and my inner goddess is endeavoring to look brave. “We’re here because you said yes, Anastasia. And you ran from me. I am going to hit  you six times, and you will count with me.” 
“I am doing this so that you remember not to run from me, and as exciting as it is, I never want you to run from me,” he whispers. And the irony is not lost on me. I was running to avoid this. If he’d opened his arms, I’d run to him, not away from him. 
“And you rolled your eyes at me. You know how I feel about that.” Suddenly, it’s gone that nervous edgy fear in his voice. He’s back from wherever he’s been. I hear it in his tone, in the way he places his fingers on my back, holding me - and the atmosphere in the room changes. 
I close my eyes, bracing myself for the blow. It comes hard, snapping across my backside, and the bite of the belt is everything I feared. I cry out involuntarily, and take a huge gulp of air. “Count, Anastasia!” he commands. “One!” I shout at him, and it sounds like an expletive. He hits me again, and the pain pulses and echoes along the line of the belt. Holy shit... that smarts. “Two!” I scream. It feels so good to scream.
His breathing is ragged and harsh. Whereas mine is almost nonexistent as I desperately scrabble around my psyche looking for some internal strength. The belt cuts into my flesh again. “Three!” Tears spring unwelcome into my eyes. Jeez - this is harder than I thought - so much harder than the spanking. He’s not holding anything back. “Four!” I yell as the belt bites me again, and now the tears are streaming down my face. I don’t want to cry. It angers me that I am crying. He hits me again. 
“Five.” My voice is more a choked, strangled sob, and in this moment, I think I hate him. One more, I can do one more. My backside feels as if it’s on fire. 
“Six,” I whisper as the blistering pain cuts across me again, and I hear him drop the belt behind me, and he’s pulling me into his arms, all breathless and compassionate... and I want none of him. 
“Let go... no... ” And I find myself struggling out his grasp, pushing him away. Fighting him. “Don’t touch me!” I hiss. I straighten and stare at him, and he’s watching me as if I might bolt, gray eyes wide, bemused. I dash the tears angrily out of my eyes with the backs of my hands, glaring at him. “This is what you really like? Me, like this?” I use the sleeve of the bathrobe to wipe  my nose. 
I have had my eyes opened and glimpsed the extent of his depravity, and I now know he’s  not capable of love - of giving or receiving love. My worst fears have been realized. And  strangely, it’s very liberating. 
The pain is such that I refuse to acknowledge it. I feel numb. I have somehow escaped  from my body and am now a casual observer to this unfolding tragedy. I shower quickly  and methodically, thinking only of each second in front of me. Now squeeze body wash  bottle. Put body wash bottle back in rack. Rub cloth on face, on shoulders... on and on, all  simple, mechanical actions, requiring simple mechanical thoughts. I finish my shower - and as I haven’t washed my hair, I can dry myself quickly. I dress  in the bathroom, taking my jeans and t-shirt out of my small suitcase. My jeans chafe  against my backside, but quite frankly, it’s a pain I welcome as it distracts my mind from  what’s happening to my splintering, shattered heart. 
He stops, and the anguish in his expression is palpable, his gray eyes  burning.  He looks utterly, utterly broken, a man in agonizing  pain, reflecting how I feel inside. I tear my gaze away from him before I change my mind  and try to comfort him.  The elevator doors close, and it whisks me down to the bowels of the basement and to  my own personal hell. I avoid eye contact.  Embarrassment and shame washes over me. I’m a complete failure. I had hoped to drag  my Fifty Shades into the light, but it’s proved a task beyond my meager abilities.
I fall onto my bed, shoes and all, and howl. The pain is indescribable... physical,  mental... metaphysical... it is everywhere, seeping into the marrow of my bones. Grief.  This is grief - and I’ve brought it on myself. Deep down, a nasty, unbidden thought comes  from my inner goddess, her lip curled in a snarl... the physical pain from the bite of a belt  is nothing, nothing compared to this devastation. I curl up, desperately clutching the flat foil balloon, and surrender myself to my grief. 
