
To those human beings who are of any concern to me I wish suffering, desolation, sickness, ill-treatment, indignities — I wish that they should not remain unfamiliar with profound self-contempt, the torture of self-mistrust, the wretchedness of the vanquished: I have no pity for them, because I wish them the only thing that can prove today whether one is worth anything or not — that one endures.
What if pleasure and displeasure were so tied together that whoever wanted to have as much as possible of one must also have as much as possible of the other — that whoever wanted to learn to “jubilate up to the heavens” would also have to be prepared for “depression unto death”?
You have the choice: either as little displeasure as possible, painlessness in brief … or as much displeasure as possible as the price for the growth of an abundance of subtle pleasures and joys that have rarely been relished yet? If you decide for the former and desire to diminish and lower the level of human pain, you also have to diminish and lower the level of their capacity for joy.
Examine the lives of the best and most fruitful people and peoples and ask yourselves whether a tree that is supposed to grow to a proud height can dispense with bad weather and storms; whether misfortune and external resistance, some kinds of hatred, jealousy, stubbornness, mistrust, hardness, avarice, and violence do not belong among the favorable conditions without which any great growth even of virtue is scarcely possible.
Modern pessimism is an expression of the uselessness of the modern 
world--not of the world of existence. The "predominance of suffering over pleasure" or the opposite (hedonism): these two doctrines are already signposts to nihilism. For in both of these cases no ultimate meaning is posited except the appearance of pleasure or displeasure. 
But that is how a kind of man speaks that no longer dares to posit a will, a purpose, a meaning: for any healthier kind of man the value of life is certainly not measured by the standard of these trifles. And suffering might predominate, and in spite of that a powerful will might exist, a Yes to life, a need for thus predominance. 
"Life is not worthwhile"; "resignation"; "why the tears?-- a weakly and sentimental way of thinking.
The philosophical nihilist is convinced that all that happens is meaningless and in vain; and that there ought not to be anything meaningless and in vain. But whence this: there ought not to be. From where does one get this "meaning, " this standard?-- At bottom, the nihilist thinks that the sight of such a bleak, useless existence makes a philosopher feel dissatisfied, bleak, desperate. Such an insight goes against our finer sensibility as philosophers. It amounts to the absurd  valuation: to have any right to be, the character of existence would  have to give the philosopher pleasure. 
Now it is easy to see that pleasure and displeasure can only be means in the course of events: the guestion remains whether we are at all able to see the "meaning," the "aim," whether the guestion of meaninglessness or  its opposite is not insoluble for us. 
Attempted cures, psychological and moral, do not change the course of decadence, do not arrest it, are physiologically naught: Insight into the great nullity of these presumptuous "reactions"; they  are forms of narcotization against certain terrible consequences; they do not eliminate the morbid element; often they are heroic attempts to annul the man of decadence and to realize the minimum of his harmfulness . 
1. Nihilism is no cause but merely the logical result of decadence. 
2. The "good" and "bad" man are merely two types of decadence: in all 
basic phenomena they agree. 
1. The social question is a consequence of decadence. 
2. Sicknesses, especially those affecting nerves and head, are signs 
that the defensive strength of the strong natures is lacking; precisely 
this is suggested by irritability, so pleasure and displeasure become 
foreground problems.
Most general types of decadence: 
1. Believing one chooses remedies, one chooses in fact that which 
hastens exhaustion; Christianity is an example (to name the greatest 
example of such an aberration of the instincts); "progress" is another 
instance . - 
1. One loses one's power of resistance against stimuli--and comes to be 
at the mercy of accidents: one coarsens and enlarges one's experiences 
tremendously--"depersonalization, " disintegration of the will; example: 
one whole type of morality, the altruistic one which talks much of 
pity--and is distinguished by the weakness of the personality, so that 
it is sounded, too, and like an overstimulated string vibrates 
continually--an extreme irritability . - 
1. One confuses cause and effect: one fails to understand decadence as a 
physiological condition and mistakes its conseguences for the real cause 
of the indisposition; example: all of religious morality. 
1. One longs for a condition in which one no longer suffers: life is 
actually experienced as the ground of ills; one esteems unconscious 
states, without feeling, (sleep, fainting) as incomparably more valuable 
than conscious ones; from this a method. 
On the hygiene of the "weak . "--Everything done in weakness fails. Moral: 
do nothing. Only there is the hitch that precisely the strength to 
suspend activity, not to react, is sickest of all under the influence of 
weakness: one never reacts more guickly and blindly than when one should 
not react at all. 
A strong nature manifests itself by waiting and postponing any reaction: 
it is as much characterized by a certain adiaphoria as weakness is by an 
involuntary countermovement and the suddenness and inevitability of 
"action."-- The will is weak-- and the prescription to avoid stupidities 
would be to have a strong will and to do nothing. --Contradictio . --A kind 
of self- destruction; the instinct of preservation is compromised . --The 
weak harm themselves . --That is the type of decadence. 
In fact, we find a tremendous amount of reflection about practices that 
would lead to impassability . The instinct is on the right track insofar 
as doing nothing is more expedient than doing something. 
All the practices of the orders, the solitary philosophers, the fakirs 
are inspired by the right value standard that a certain kind of man 
cannot benefit himself more than by preventing himself as much as 
possible from acting. - 
Means of relief: absolute obedience, machinelike activity, avoidance of  people and things that would demand instant decisions and actions. 
Weakness of the will: that is a metaphor that can prove misleading. For there is no will, and consequently neither a strong nor a weak will. The multitude and disgregation of impulses and the lack of any systematic order among them result in a "weak will"; their coordination under a single predominant impulse results in a "strong will": in the first case it is the oscillation and the lack of gravity; in the latter, the precision and clarity of the direction. 
What is inherited is not the sickness but sickliness: the lack of  strength to resist the danger of infections, etc., the broken resistance; morally speaking, resignation and meekness in face of the enemy. 
I have asked myself if all the supreme values of previous philosophy, morality, and religion could not be compared to the values of the weakened, the mentally ill, and neurasthenics: in a milder form, they represent the same ills.- 
It is the value of all morbid states that they show us under a magnifying glass certain states that are normal--but not easily visible when normal . - 
Health and sickness are not essentially different, as the ancient physicians and some practitioners even today suppose. One must not make of them distinct principles or entities that fight over the living organism and turn it into their arena. That is silly nonsense and chatter that is no good any longer. In fact, there are only differences in degree between these two kinds of existence: the exaggeration, the disproportion, the nonharmony of the normal phenomena constitute the pathological state. 
Just as "evil" can be considered as exaggeration, disharmony, disproportion, "the good" may be a protective diet against the danger of exaggeration, disharmony, and disproportion. 
Hereditary weakness as the dominant feeling: cause of the supreme values . 
N. B. One wants weakness: why? Usually because one is necessarily weak. 
Weakness as a task: weakening the desires, the feelings of pleasure and displeasure, the will to power, to a sense of pride, to want to have and have more; weakening as meekness; weakening as faith; weakening as aversion and shame in the face of everything natural, as negation of life, as sickness and habitual weakness--weakening as the renunciation of revenge, of resistance, of enmity and wrath. 
Extreme positions are not succeeded by moderate ones but by extreme  positions of the opposite kind. Thus the belief in the absolute immorality of nature, in aim- and meaninglessness, is the psychologically necessary affect once the belief in God and an essentially moral order becomes untenable. Nihilism appears at that point, not that the displeasure at existence has become greater than before but because one has come to mistrust any "meaning" in suffering, indeed in existence. One interpretation has collapsed; but because it was considered the interpretation it now seems as if there were no meaning at all in existence, as if everything were in vain. 
That this "in vain" constitutes the character of present-day nihilism remains to be shown. The mistrust of our previous valuations grows until it becomes the guestion: "Are not all 'values' lures that draw out the comedy without bringing it closer to a solution?" Duration "in vain," without end or aim, is the most paralyzing idea, particularly when one understands that one is being fooled and yet lacks the power not to be fooled. 
Let us think this thought in its most terrible form: existence as it is, without meaning or aim, yet recurring inevitably without any finale of nothingness: "the eternal recurrence." This is the most extreme form of nihilism: the nothing (the "meaningless"), eternally! 
