In the servile self-consciousness we have the moments of pure, universal being-for-self projected on to the lord, and its own implicit self-existence projected on to the particular contentual things it elaborates. These moments are not united in the servile consciousness, but for us, the observers, they are identical, and we are therefore brought to think of an essentially infinite, free, thinking self-consciousness which preserves its selfsameness in the various purely conceptual contents that it envisages. At first, however, its content is not unfolded nor set in motion, and it appears as merely the unfettered universality of thought.
In this form of self-consciousness all detailed content of consciousness, natural existences, feelings, desires, aims (whether out own or other people’s) becomes unessential; only the pure conscious thought that we put into them counts. The Stoic self-consciousness is indifferent to the master-slave distinction: whether on the throne of the world or in the slave's chains, it withdraws into the solitary sovereignty, the pure universality of thought. Such a withdrawal is characteristic of a period in which high culture goes with universal fear and bondage.
This means that unless content is externally given to this consciousness, it cannot by itself determine the True and the Good. It has no criterion other than the wholly empty, abstract one of the reasonable, a notion as tedious as it is superficially elevated.
Scepticism carries into realization what Stoicism merely notionally thinks. It  explicitly negates the rich determinate content of life and action. All tasks and all desires become for it vanishing quantities.
Scepticism carries to the limit the dialectic which has been sapping Sense-certainty, Perceptual acquaintance, Understanding, and the master-serf relationship, a dialectic which has steadily eliminated determinateness from our thinking and left us with empty scientific abstractions from the last of which we now withdraw our credence.
Scepticism does not regretfully see the solid world of reality going up in the flames, nor even its own perception of that world, it  does not even repine at the sacrifice of its professional sophistries which have framed the bonfire. In seeing all this vanish, it  has become confirmed in the consciousness of its own freedom from conviction, in the simple negativity of its own thinking.
This sceptical freedom from determinate conviction is also, however, a giddy whirl of disorderly , ever dissolving, ever reinstated, personal beliefs. The sceptic in fact confesses that, as a finite, contingent, empirical person, he is everlastingly subject to many definite, unjustifiable convictions. He has to continue with the business of ordinary living, acting and speaking. He oscillates continually between the high detachment of universal scepticism and a welter of unreasonable beliefs. Even his pure scepticism is a thesis for which doubtful arguments are adduced, and he must in practice rely on the deliverances of the senses and the conventions of morality. The sceptical self-consciousness is in fact deeply self-contradictory, and its reasonings and counter-reasonings are like the arguments of children concerned to contradict one another and always to have the last word.
 Observational Reason categorized the observed thing in ways corresponding to its own development from sense-certainty,  through perception, to Understanding. It went, that is, from description
through classification to lawlike explanation. Reason must now recapitulate its further development from individualistic self-assertion  and conflict to the ethical self-consciousness  which unites all self-consciousnesses. (This recapitulation is to take place within  the social medium on1y implicit in Master and Slave etc., and remote and alien in the Roman and medieval worlds.)
The stage of self.-consciousness towards which we are now moving is essentially ethical, governed by unwritten laws and social customs, a framework within which the individual lives and moves, and from which he does not think to disassociate himself.
The members of an organized social whole not only resemble the differentiated modes of a single substance; they are also more or less conscious of their common membership, of the sacrifice of their individual, total generic identity.
 Spirit now lives in two worlds, one of self-alienation and the other of faith, where, however, in fleeing, from the former world, it  is involved in another form of the same self-alienation. The principle of the former world, not being a ware of its Notion, has the false limitation of being opposed to faith.
The world we are about to consider is one in which consciousness externalizes itself, which accordingly seems strange to it, and which it  has to master. Only by mastering the world can self-consciousness have the universality which is its validity and its reality. This universality involves conformity to general patterns, and is not to be confused with the merely formal universality of the realm of right.
 Such a retention of uncommunicating being-for-self in the face of the other's renunciation of the same, denies the very nature of Spirit, which is master and lord over every deed and reality, and can make any of them as if it had never been.
 In its first immediate diremption, absolute Spirit appears to itself in the manner of sense-certainty. It appears as a being pervaded by Spirit, but Spirit in the form of lordship or mastery, the immediate as opposed to the inwardly withdrawn form of self-consciousness. Its shape is in fact shapelessness, the all-embracing light of the morning, which shows itself in the forms of Nature, but continues to play uncommittedly over them.
This life of uncommitted surface-play never truly returns to self, nor makes its manifestations truly its own: these latter are merely its attributes, its myriad names, its  selfless surface-ornaments.
This incoherent life must rise to self-consciousness and give firm subsistence to its vanishing forms. It  must come to know itself as itself. Firm subsistence must be dissolved in the gamut of forms it lays before the individual.
As a matter of fact, philosophy does have to do with them too, recognizing them as the pure essences, the absolute elements and powers; but in doing so, recognizes them in their specific determinateness as well, and is therefore master over them, whereas perceptual understanding or 'sound common sense' takes them for the truth and is led on by them from one error to another. It does not itself become conscious that it is simple essentialities of this kind that hoJd sway over it, but fancies that it has always to do with wholly substantial material and content; just as sense-certainty is unaware that the empty abstraction of pure being is its essence. But it is, in fact, these essentialities within which perceptual understanding runs to and fro through every kind of material and content; they are the cohesive power and mastery over that content and they alone are what the sensuous is as essence for consciousness, they are what determines the relations of the sensuous to it, and it is in them that the process of perception and of its truth runs its course.
Yet this formalism maintains that such monotony and abstract universality are the Absolute, and we are assured that dissatisfaction with it indicates the inability to master the absolute standpoint and to keep hold of it. Time was when the bare possibility of imagining something differently was sufficient to refute an idea, and this bare possibility, this general thought, also had the entire positive value of an actual cognition. Nowadays we see all value ascribed to the universal Idea in this non actual form, and the undoing of all distinct, determinate entities (or rather the hurling of them all into the abyss of vacuity without further development or any justification) is allowed to pass muster as the speculative mode of treatment.
If it has not experienced absolute fear but only some lesser dread, the negative being has remained for it something external, its substance has not been infected by it through and through. Since the entire contents of its natural consciousness have not been jeopardized, determinate being still in principle attaches to it; having a 'mind of one's own' is self-win, a freedom which is still enmeshed in servitude. Just as little as the pure form can become essential being for it, just as little is that form, regarded as extended to the particular, a universal formative activity, an absolute Notion; rather it is a skill which is master over some things, but not over the universal power and the whole of objective being.
But since this existent law is valid unconditionally, the obedience of self consciousness is not the serving of a master whose commands were arbitrary, and in which it would not recognize itself. On the contrary, laws are the thoughts of its own absolute consciousness, thoughts which are immediately its own. Also, it does not believe in them, for although belief does perceive essential being it perceives it as something alien to itself. Ethical self-consciousness is immediately one with essential being through the universality of its sell; belief, on the other hand, starts from the individual consciousness; it is the movement of that consciousness always towards this unity, but without attaining to the presence of its essential being. The above consciousness, on the other hand, has put its merely individual aspect behind it, this mediation is finished and complete, and only because this is so, is this consciousness immediate self-consciousness of the ethical substance.
The difference between self-consciousness and essence, is therefore, perfectly transparent.
 In the pursuit of wealth an individual's personality becomes enslaved to the chance personality of another. What he personally is becomes utterly impersonal, a commodity like others to be bought and sold. Feeling that every thing essential is reduced to unessentiality, the individual becomes profoundly rebellious.
The self, seeing itself thus superseded and rejected, supersedes this supersession and rejects this rejection. It is consciously for itself in and through them.