
To enjoy, one needs a body. It begins with a tickle and ends in a blaze of petrol. That's always what jouissance is.
Misadventure of desire at the hedges of jouissance, watched out for by an evil god. This drama is not as accidental as it is believed to be. It is essential: for desire comes from the Other, and jouissance is located on the side of the Thing. Castration means that jouissance has to be refused in order to be attained on the inverse scale of the Law of desire.
What I want is the good of others provided it remain in the image of my own.
Lebensneid is not an ordinary jealousy, it is the jealousy born in a subject in his relation to an other, insofar as this other is held to enjoy a certain from jouissance or superabundant vitality, that the subject perceives as something that he cannot apprehend by means of even the most elementary of affective movements. Isn’t it strange, very odd, that a being admits to being jealous of something in the other to the point of hatred and the need to destroy, jealous of something that he is incapable of apprehending in any way, by any intuitive path?
Jouissance is always of the order of tension, of forcing, of expenditure, even of exploit. Jouissance is undoubtedly there at the point where pain begins to appear. Only love allows jouissance to condescend to desire. The subject will realise that his desire is merely a vain detour with the aim of catching the jouissance of the other.
Jouissance presents itself as buried at the centre of a field and has the characteristics of inaccessibility, obscurity and opacity; moreover, the field is surrounded by a barrier which makes access to it difficult for the subject to the point of inaccessibility, because jouissance appears not purely and simply as the satisfaction of a need, but as the satisfaction of a drive.
This track, this pathway, is familiar to us. It’s ancestral knowledge. And what is this knowledge, if we don’t forget that Freud introduces what he himself calls ‘beyond the pleasure principle,’ the pleasure principle itself not being overturned thereby? Knowledge is what brings life to a halt at a certain limit on the path to jouissance. For the path toward death — this is what is at issue, it’s a discourse about masochism — the path toward death is nothing other than what is called jouissance.
For it is pleasure that sets limits to jouissance, pleasure as what binds incoherent life together, until another prohibition – this one being unchallengeable — arises from the regulation that Freud discovered as the primary process and relevant law of pleasure.
If the paths to jouissance have something in them that dies out, that tends to make them impassable, prohibition, if I may say so, becomes its all-terrain vehicle, its half-track truck, that gets it out of the circuitous routes that lead man back in a roundabout way toward the rut of a short and well-trodden satisfaction.
What’s disturbing is that if one pays in jouissance, then one has got it, and then, once one has got it it is very urgent that one squander it. If one does not squander it, there will be all sorts of consequences.
Development is confused with the development of mastery. It is here that one must have a good ear, like in music — I am the master, I progress along the path of mastery, I am the master of myself as I am of the universe. That is what I was talking about earlier, the vanquished idiot. The universe is a flower of rhetoric. This literary echo may perhaps help us understand that the ego can also be a flower of rhetoric, which grows in the pot of the pleasure principle that Freud calls "Lustprinzip," and that I define as that which is satisfied by blah-blah.
That is what I am saying when I say that the unconscious is structured like a language. But I must dot the i's and cross the t's. The universe — you might realize it by now, all the same, given the way in which I have accentuated the use of certain words, the "whole" and the "not-whole," and their differential application to the two sexes — the universe is the place where, due to the fact of speaking, everything succeeds.
Succeeds in what? I can tell you the answer, now that I have, I hope, finally managed to bring you to this point: succeeds in making the sexual relationship fail in the male manner.
Normally I would expect to hear some snickering now — alas, I don't hear any. Snickering would mean "So, you've admitted it, there are two ways to make the sexual relationship fail." That is how the music of the epithalamion is modulated. The epithalamion, the duet — one must distinguish the two of them — the alternation, the love letter, they're not the sexual relationship. They revolve around the fact that there's no such thing as a sexual relationship.
There is thus the male way of revolving around it, and then the other one, that I will not designate otherwise because it's what I'm in the process of elaborating this year — how that is elaborated in the female way. It is elaborated on the basis of the not-whole. But as, up until now, the not-whole has not been amply explored, it's obviously giving me a hard time.
On that note, I am going to tell you a good one to distract you a bit.  I almost regret having, in this way, said enough, which always means too much. For one must see the radical difference of what is produced at the other pole, on the basis of woman.
Next time, I will try to enunciate in a way that stands up — and that is complete enough for you to bear the time before we meet again, in other words, half a month — that, for woman — but write woman with the slanted line with which I designate what must be barred — for Woman, something other than object a is at stake in what comes to make up for the sexual relationship that does not exist.
The "doesn't stop not being written," on the contrary, is the impossible, as I define it on the basis of the fact that it cannot in any case be written, and it is with this that I characterize the sexual relationship — the sexual relationship doesn’t stop not being written.
Because of this, the apparent necessity of the phallic function turns out to be mere contingency. It is as a mode of the contingent that the phallic function stops not being written. What submits the sexual relationship to being, for speaking beings, but the regime of the encounter is tantamount to contingency. It is only as contingency that, thanks to psychoanalysis, the phallus, reserved in ancient times to the Mysteries, has stopped not being written. Nothing more. It has not entered into the "doesn't stop," that is, into the field on which depend necessity, on the one hand, and impossibility.
The true thus attests here that by making us beware the imaginary, as it does, it has a lot to do with "a-natomy."
They are written on the triangle constituted by the Imaginary, the Symbolic, and the Real. To the right is the scant reality on which the pleasure  principle is based, which is such that everything we are allowed to approach by way of reality remains rooted in fantasy.
People have always imagined that being had to contain a sort of fullness that is characteristic of it. Being is a body. That is where people began in first approaching being, and they laboriously concocted a whole hierarchy of beings. Ultimately, they began with the notion that each one should know what keeps it in being — that had to be its good, in other words, what gives it pleasure.
What change thus came about in discourse in order for people to suddenly question that being regarding the means it might have to go beyond itself, that is, to learn more than it needs to know in its being to survive as a body?
The maze leads not only to nourishment but to a button or flap that the supposed subject of this being must figure out how to use to obtain nourishment. Or it has to recognize a feature, a lit or colored feature, to which the being is capable of reacting. What is important is that the question of knowledge is transformed here into that of learning.
The subjects know, they know. But all the same, they don't know everything. At the level of this not-everything, only the Other doesn't know. It is the Other who constitutes the not-everything, precisely in that the Other is the part of the not-at-all-knowledgeable in the not-everything.
Thus, it may momentarily be convenient to make the Other responsible for this, to which analysis leads in the most avowed manner, though no one realizes it: if libido is only masculine, it is only from where the dear woman is whole, in other words, from the place from which man sees her, that the dear woman can have an unconscious.
And what does it help her do? It helps her, as everyone knows, make the speaking being, who is reduced here to man, speak, in other words it helps her exist only as mother. She has unconscious effects, but her unconscious — at the limit point at which she is not responsible for everyone's unconscious, in other words, at the point at which the Other she deals with, the Other with a capital O, works in such a way that she knows nothing, because the Other knows even less, given how difficult it is to even maintain its existence — this unconscious, what can we say of it, if not to sustain with Freud that it doesn't leave her sitting pretty?
Now, if there's no such thing as a sexual relationship, we must see in what respect the jouissance of the body can serve a purpose here. Let us approach things first from the pole at which every x is a function of x, that is, from the pole where man is situated. One ultimately situates oneself there by choice — women are free to situate themselves there if it gives them pleasure to do so. Everyone knows there are phallic women, and that the phallic function doesn't stop men from being homosexuals. It is, nevertheless, the phallic function that helps them situate themselves as men and approach woman.