This is not to imply that ethics comes down to either fencing pleasure so that it can roam where it will. Such spatioeconomic proposals for the ethical partitioning of pleasure are based in a still too naturalistic conception of pleasure, in something that is much closer to need. 
It has often been remarked that liberal theories of ethics seek merely to provide equality of circumstances and opportunity to all and to protect all subjects from natural harm. Ethics is thus reduced to a guarantee that everyone will have the basics to sustain “bare” life. Rawls, aware of the limitations of such a project, attempts to go beyond it by advocating the recognition of individual pleasures. But he does so while adhering to a notion of pleasure that scarcely distinguishes it from a material good. He thus fails adequately to understand that once pleasure is denaturalised and shown to be constituted by a detour through the field of the Other, its equitable distribution is no longer an appropriate or feasible goal. The problem should not be posed as one of distribution, but of deprivation, instead. That is to say, the problem is no longer to ensure that everyone has an adequate portion of the pleasure she wants, but to ensure that she wants in the first place. Arising in the field of the Other, pleasure arises alongside our uncertain relation to the Other. What does he expect of me? Who does he think I am? Since the surest way of guaranteeing that the Other recognizes us for ourselves, or that he acknowledges our desire, is to make our desires his, we end up depriving ourselves of our own pleasure, choosing instead, for the sake of a more pacific relation to the Other, to invest our pleasure in his (lost) cause. The problem with pleasure is any of the countless reasons we invent to forsake it. What we find most difficult is hanging onto and enjoying the pleasure we have. It is this dissatisfaction we thus impose on ourselves that leads us to remain the same satisfaction of others. 
It is well acknowledged that pleasure is a private matter: “to each his own,” we say. But the incomprehensibility with which we encounter another’s pleasure is not in itself the cause of our hostility. What must be added to this state of affairs for envy to arise is an obstacle that prevents the envious person from relishing his own pleasure. Some deficit of pleasure must be felt that spoils the pleasure that remains to him, makes it distasteful. When this happens, the deficit can never be made good, never be filled by anything in this world, and the envious person thus begins to to regard with malevolence the idiotic passions of others. 
By rethinking the notion of work through that of pleasure, Freud opens Aristotle’s distinction between the act, in all its rarity, and mere action to a redefinition in which what matters is the kind of relation each maintains toward sexual enjoyment. If the avowed ambition of the Ethics seminar is to remove the discussion of ethics from “the starry sky” and place it where it belongs, “in our bodies, and nowhere else,” that is, if its ambition is to define an ethics of the embodied subject, then its crucial first step is to foreground the relation between work and the body as a site of pleasure, in order to distinguish the act of Antigone from the action of Creon on this ground. 
The pleasure he observes taking place at a distance remains alien to him, turned in on itself. The look with which he beholds this — to him — complete, absolute, and yet incomprehensible pleasure has thus a malevolent potency: It is bitter.