“You see that Venus and Bacchus hold equal sway in our little temple—and even if it be not their most noble grapes we press here, it is in any case the unadulterated fluid—the thing itself! Those two are the most honest of all godheads, and we in here put our trust entirely in them. You must now do likewise.” 
Other adorers of hers, though, name her Ticklish Lise, that being their blunt way of acknowledging her aloofness and the sensitiveness of her skin. These names, however, I mention entirely en passant and as a matter of no consequence whatever. For she may in fact be addressed by any woman’s name which a young man of Copenhagen may have imprinted in his heart, and thuswise in her own small person may be said to represent the whole sex.
A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy.
The Soudane Orosmane himself can here—as he has never before been able to, as, alas, he will never be able to again—sink his lofty burden of grief, incomprehensible to the common mortal, into human hearts, into the hearts of a poet and a whore. So be this hour a pearl in an oyster shell, on the bottom of dark Copenhagen swaying all around us. Vivat, my master and my mistress. Vivat this our stillborn, death-doomed hour!”
“Hear then,” said Yorick, “our first grief. You would find, if you looked closer, that Lise’s salt tears have drawn two noble gutters down through that rose-red of her cheeks which has lately, with so much care, been laid upon them. And this only because another maiden in the house, in a squabble, has called her an alabaster whore! Had I but now got two florins—but I have them not—I should this very night go down in the town to procure some object of alabaster for my Lise, in order that she might realize with what true feminine genius this friend of hers, Nille, has portrayed her person. Fain would I like to console Lise. For verily, Orosmane, I owe this maiden much, and more than the paltry four shillings which her goodness had allowed me to have chalked up against me. It is a good and blessed thing for such people as me—it is balm to our souls as to our bodies—that there are such people as she!”
“The first bonheur parfait,” said Yorick, “is this: to feel in oneself an excess of strength.” “As we do now!” said Orosmane and laughed. “As now, blissfully united, we are able to soar into the air, like to three kites made fast with slim strings only to wet Copenhagen beneath us. You are a real poet, you! Your words turn my thoughts into pictures.”
“But you tell me,” he went on after a short pause, “that there is a second happiness as perfect as the first. Name it!” 
“The second perfect happiness,” said Yorick, “is this: to know for certain that you are fulfilling the will of God.” There was a short pause.
“But now, my soothsayer, good Athenian—now to the third perfect happiness of which you spoke.” As Yorick did not answer at once he repeated: “The third, what is it?” Yorick answered: “The cessation of pain.” Orosmane’s face became clear with an almost luminous pallor. In a last, flying, completely weightless leap—as in the language of the ballet is called grand jeté—he finished off his solo. “Ha!” he cried. “There you hit the nail on the head! There you speak from my own heart! Would that you knew how many times I have experienced your third perfect happiness! And indeed, that was why, first of all, even as a child, I demanded to be made almighty—in order that I should no longer feel the cane—old Ditlevs’ cane!”