
When O was a young girl, above all she wanted a man to take care of her. In her dream, the city was the repository of aH dreams. A city that was always decaying. In the center of this city, her father had hung himself. This can't be true, O thought, because l've never had a father. In her dream, she searched for her father. She knew that it was a dumb thing for her to do because he was dead.
"l'm looking for my father."
The private eye, who in one reality was a friend of O's, replied that the case was an easy one. O liked that she was easy. And so they began. First, according to his instructions, O told him alI that she knew about the mystery. It took her several days to recount alI the details.
O didn't remember anything in or about the first period of her childhood. After not remembering, she remembered the jewels. When her mother had died, a jewel case had been opened. The case, consisting of one tray, had insides of red velvet. O knew that this was also her mother's cunt.
That's possible, O thought, as if thinking was dismissing.
O became scared. If her father had killed her mother, he could slaughter her. Perhaps that's what her life had been about. During this period of time, O hved and stayed alive by dreaming. One of the reveries concerned the most evil man in the world.
Each record lay directly over and under another record, except for the top and the bottom. The one on which O perched thrust farther than the others into a sky that was empty, for this record was a stage. In the first act of this play, O learned that evil had entered the land. That the father, who was equivalent to evil, was successfully stealing or appropriating his son's possessions.
Both of them were standing behind O. Then, the father began to torture his son. He inflicted pain physically. O actually saw this older man point three different machine guns at her. Each of them was different. O understood that he wanted to scare, rather than shoot, her. He laughed. And then disappeared. O hated him more than it was possible to hate anyone.
It was at this point that O began to teach him how to change violence into pleasure. Now O decided that she wanted to go where she had never been before.
Absence isn't the name of the father only. Every whorehouse is childhood. Because they fulfill their fantasies. In this way, what was known as the male regime, in the territory named women's bodies, separated its reason from its fantasy.
To them, the word lave had no meaning. But I didn't become a whore because I loved W so much l'd do anything for him. Anything to convince him to love me. A love I was beginning to know I would never receive. I entered the brothel of my own free will, so that I could become nothing, because, I believed, only when I was nothing would begin to see.
I had no idea what I was doing.
The cards that I remember told me that my future is freedom. "But what'll I do when there's no one in the world who loves me? When all existence is only freedom?"
The one fortune, mine, which I remember, was based on the card of the Hanged Man: My father was the owner of Death, of the cathouse. Sitting in his realm of absence, he surveyed all that wasn't. The cards showed me clearly that I hated him. When a message travels from the invisible to the visible world, that messenger is emotion. My anger, a messenger, would lead to revolution. Revolutions are dangerous to everyone.
They told us, the whores, that the revolution, which was just about to happen, had to fail, due to its own nature or origin. As soon as it failed, as soon as sovereignty, be it reigning or revolutionary, disappeared, as soon as sovereignty ate its own head as if it were a snake, when the streets turned to poverty and decay, but a different poverty and decay, all my dreams, which were me, would be shattered.
The cards that I remember told me that my future is freedom.
"But what'll I do when there's no one in the world who loves me? When all existence is only freedom?"
The cards proceeded to show images of stress, illness, disease . . .
I was trying to get rid of loneliness and nothing would ever rid me of loneliness until I got rid of myself.
I had no life. I only loved those poets who were criminals. I began to write letters to people I didn't know, to those poets, not in order to communicate with them. T o do something else.
Suicide is only a protest against control.
There I first saw O, who was naked. My eye would follow her, as much as it could, trying to clear away for her everything that was before and behind her. I would die for her. Whenever a man hangs himself, his cock becomes so immense that for the first time he knows that he has a cock.
Perhaps, in the staleness of the brothel, O had been a she and now she was another she who wasn't distinct from air. I watched this girl begin to breathe.
The first time W and I slept together I knew that he didn't love me. But I didn't know why. The nausea and confusion that resulted left me shreds of belief to which I could cling: I clung to belief that in the future W might start to love me.
I could cling to my nausea. Maybe nausea, then, is something. A man's body.
Needles inserted into the flesh just below the lower lashes kept the eyes open.
They turned from pale pink to bloodred. Opened to my eyes as his fingers disappeared. Some were in her mouth. He was bending her over and then he turned around, her cunt juice dripping so much that I could see it on his fingertips, and put his cock, which was in my mind, into that cunt that must have been open, wanting, screaming for pleasure, whether she loved him or not, she was being fucked inserted thrust into pummeled bruised and all that comes out is pleasure, the body is pleasure, I have known pleasure, and I am watching the endless pleasure, as it comes again again again, that I have known and now I am being refused.
How long will this reign of masochism continue?
Now I understood that someone could hurt more than me. Reaching down, I lifted up his body, on to my thigh, as much as I was able. I only wanted to fuck with him. Pain, for him at that moment, was the same as sexual pleasure. For me, every area of my skin was an orifice; therefore, each part of his body could do and did everything to mine. We wondered at our bodies.
"The middle ring, or the ring around the middle of the shaft, is doing most of the feeling, but now it's slipping downward. If this tunnel, which the ring's slipping down, becomes rigid, there won't be any more sensation. No sensation is nothing. If this tunnel becomes rigid, there'll be nothing. I must make my world out of nothing. Relaxation's opening the field, but I don't dare — l’m holding back-open to being a rose; a rose unfolds again and again until the nerves drive the flesh into pure nerves; they are — l’m closing again (becoming rigid) — these are the rhythms of the labyrinth.
"The vibrations (pleasure) are taking over. Now any desire to stop ............................ oh yes, there it goes; this disappearance of it causes laughter; laughter's a threshold that's soon reached.
"As soon as I went over this threshold, for the first time I began to play; I was opening and opening to the point that I could touch being pure nerves.
"In the realm of being pure nerves, to touch is to be touched: every part of mind, body and feeling is relaxing so much that sensation has domain. When I carne, the spasms traveled all the way down the funnel, to its bottom, where there was an opening. Then or there, everything disappeared; the world or everything be carne more sexual.
"My hole opened up into only opening: the vibrations intensified.
"Soon this world will be nothing but pleasure, the world in which we live and are nothing but desires for more intense and more intense joy.
"I want more now, I want every rose, all the major rows down there, but something is always going over. Again again. An animaI. lt would always come again: the animaI claw."
“This sentence turned me on to such an extent that I couldn’t remain at the edge of the text, I had to enter into those words, and this entering, as I sat there with a dildo up my cunt — I think that must look ugly — was a moving into the halls, with all their walls, there, of my rising sexual energies. I don’t think this space which I was now in was my body . . . 
“I wasn’t in a body, but in a place.
"My whole cunt is now this animal who's becoming hungrier: mouth opens more widely, the dit is a tongue that licks, laps, is tapping like a foot, tapping what's outside as if a fIoor. Eyes lie above this tongue. All my sensations are a sky. I could no longer talk. As soon as l stopped talking, everything turned white and the waves that were approaching, slowly, steadily, and very strongly, solid, solid, transformed into my blood, then into my bones; whatever had been the rhythms of my body inside my body were now rhythms outside. This is the meaning mantra. The final orgasm will occur when my brains are making mantra."
Here finally were the days of the beginning of happiness, when the heat and the yellow were dry. When the spine's bottom rose up from its body: "No," exclaimed one whore, "l'm not going to masturbate today because, inside my cunt, the well where all is bottomless has come out so far, as if an animaI is moving out of the hoIe, that l'm turning inside out. l'm scared. l'm scared . . . that if the animaI gets out . . . god knows what might happen . . . I’ll never be able to stop coming, so it’ll have to be a new kind of world.
He knew how to do this so that a woman felt pleasure, pleasure as if every type of pleasure was coexisting yet separate from every other type in the same space.
Everything was happening, as it always does, sexually.
And she hated him because he was violent. It was at this point that O began to teach him how to change violence into pleasure.