Most of what is known about pain and pleasure derives from the study of each phenomenon in isolation. Recently, however, neuroscientists investigating opioid and placebo analgesia, drug addiction and learning have begun to bridge the gap between the pain and pleasure research fields. This development has been strengthened by the increasing focus on the subjective emotional feelings (hedonics) that are elicited by rewards and punishments.
Rewards and punishments are defined as something that an animal will work to achieve or avoid, respectively. Pleasure represents the subjective hedonic value of rewards. The term ‘pain’ encompasses both the hedonic (suffering) and motivational (avoidance) aspects of a painful experience. Clearly, seeking pleasure and avoiding pain is important for survival, and these two motivations probably compete for preference in the brain. Put simply, which of two coinciding pain and pleasure events should be processed and acted on first? Consistent with the idea that a common currency of emotion enables the comparison of pain and pleasure in the brain, the evidence reviewed here points to there being extensive overlap in the neural circuitry and chemistry of pain and pleasure processing at the systems level. This article summarizes current research on pain–pleasure interactions and the consequences for human behaviour.
The large variability between the strength of a sensory stimulus and the resulting hedonic feeling is of great medical and neuroscientific interest. For instance, athletes can be oblivious to pain in the heat of competition,
in which winning is the reward. A key factor for the interpretation of pain and pleasure is subjective utility. For example, the reward value of a stimulus increases with the effectiveness of that stimulus in restoring bodily equilibrium (homeostasis). This effect, known as alliesthesia, is well-documented for food rewards, which are more pleasurable when they relieve a hunger state.
As the experience of pain represents a deviation from homeostatic balance, the same principle can be applied to pain and the pleasantness of its relief. Similarly, when a perceived threat to an organism becomes greater, pain unpleasantness increases, enhancing defensive and avoidance mechanisms.
Pain and pleasure encourage the constant optimization of our internal homeostatic balance. Although pleasure-seeking and pain-avoidance generally increase our chances for survival, it is easy to envisage scenarios in which these two motivations are in competition. A simple case would involve a large reward that is only accessible at the ‘price’ of a small pain. Sometimes it seems that overcoming a small amount of pain might even enhance the pleasure, as reflected perhaps by the common expression ‘no pain, no gain’ or the pleasure
of eating hot curries. Pain–pleasure dilemmas abound in social environments, and culture-specific moral systems, such as religions, are often used to guide the balance between seeking pleasure and avoiding pain. The subjective utility — or ‘meaning’ — of pain or pleasure for the individual is determined by sensory, homeostatic, cultural and other factors that, when combined, bias the hedonic experience of pain or pleasure.
The processes that underlie the subjective interpretation of a sensory event can be understood as the manifestation of an unconscious decision process. The decision process requires information about the homeostatic state of the individual (such as inflammation or hunger), sensory input and knowledge about impending threats and available rewards.
This allows the animal to ignore the pain and attend to the more important event. The Motivation-Decision Model predicts that pain–pleasure dilemmas in which a large reward is gained at the price of a small pain are resolved through the antinociceptive effects of the pleasurable reward. In some instances, threatening and pleasure-related cues are more important for survival than pain, and it is assumed that any antinociceptive effects are mediated by the descending pain modulatory system, which is located in the brainstem. This circuit, which consists of excitatory and inhibitory cells, communicates with neurons in the prefrontal cortex, the hypothalamus and the amygdala to control the nociceptive afferent pathway in the spinal and trigeminal dorsal horn. Opiate drugs and endogenous opioids act on this descending system to produce pharmacological, placebo, stress-induced and pleasure-related analgesia.
Evidence of pleasure-related analgesia has been reported in various human and animal studies: pain is decreased by pleasant odours, images, pleasurable music, palatable food and sexual behaviour. In addition, considerable evidence suggests that expectation of treatment effect, which contributes to placebo analgesia, is a type of reward expectation. Although the placebo treatment might not be pleasurable in itself, reduced pain represents the better of two alternative outcomes (the other being unchanged pain levels), and therefore has a higher reward value.
By decreasing reward pleasantness, pain and other threatening events ensure that necessary action is taken to protect the individual, thus attenuating the normal reward-seeking behaviour. Correspondingly, decreased consumption of palatable foods is considered to be a measure of pain suffering and is reversible with morphine treatment. Similarly, sustained pain inhibits morphine reward in rodents; this is likely to be due to sustained activation of the K-opioid system in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). In humans there is extensive co-morbidity between chronic pain and depression, which often involves a reduction in the ability of chronic pain sufferers to enjoy everyday pleasures (anhedonia). This reduction in pleasure might form part of a vicious cycle for the patients, in which both negative mood and lack of pleasure result in exacerbated pain, leading to more negative mood and anhedonia.
Pain and reward are complex constructs that encompass motivational, hedonic and learning signals. As the motivation to seek reward or avoid pain is generally correlated with the pleasantness or aversiveness of an event (respectively), it is difficult to disentangle the neuroanatomy of the hedonic and motivational components of pain and reward. In addition, we have only limited access to our own hedonic and motivational processes, which are thought to be primarily subconscious. Importantly, however, the motivation and hedonic subsystems seem to be mediated by different neurotransmitters. Carefully controlled studies have found specific effects for two neurotransmitter systems: dopamine increases motivation for, but not the pleasure of, eating palatable foods whereas the opioid system influences motivation indirectly by modulating subjective emotional feelings of pain and reward. In summary, opioids are necessary for hedonic experience (‘liking’) but dopamine motivates you to get ready for it (‘wanting’).
U-opioids have been shown to cause a positive shift in affect across the hedonic spectrum: they enhance the pleasantness of sweet tastes and decrease the aversiveness of pain and bitter foods. Both painful and pleasant events are associated with the release of endogenous U-opioids in the brain and, importantly, in the NAc. Blocking of U-opioid signalling with naloxone decreases the pleasantness of food rewards and sexual behaviour and reverses reward-related analgesia. Interestingly, a recent conditional geneknockout study showed a dissociation of U-opioid-mediated reward and analgesia: only U-opioid antinociception depends on an intact central serotonergic system. The K-opioid system presents another example of pleasure–analgesia dissociation: K-opioids reduce pain but also induce feelings of aversion. Furthermore, the K-opioid activity caused by tonic (sustained) pain has been shown to disrupt the positive interaction between U-opioids and mesolimbic dopamine.
Considering the close association that exists between motivation, learning and hedonic feelings, it is not surprising that dopamine signalling has been consistently reported to correlate with stimulus reward value. Striatal dopamine neurons also respond to aversive events but, in contrast to the firing bursts that signal pleasant events or their cues, aversive stimulation causes a brief inhibition of baseline firing. The many time-courses of the dopamine signal are often measured by different techniques, making the literature on the precise role of dopamine in pain and reward complicated and somewhat inconsistent.  Despite the complex effects and interactions of the various dopamine time-courses, it is clear that endogenous dopamine is involved in the processing of both pain and pleasure. Pharmacological manipulation of dopamine levels has also been shown to modulate both pain and reward behaviours.
The precise role of dopamine in pain and reward processing is hotly debated. In the reward literature, one main question has been whether the dopamine signal is necessary for reward learning, salience, motivation or hedonics. For pain, dopamine agonists, such as amphetamine, reduce tonic pain but do not change phasic pain behaviours. Similarly, tonic but not phasic pain events are thought to induce endogenous analgesia through dopamine release in the NAc. Dopamine receptor availability studies have shown that endogenous striatal dopamine release correlates positively with sensory and affective components
of tonic pain in healthy subjects.
Regions that are particularly well situated to mediate interactions between pain and pleasure include the NAc, the pallidum and the amygdala. These regions receive direct or indirect reward-related signals from dopamine neurons in the midbrain and are thought to signal either reward-prediction error (discrepancy between the expected and the received reward; NAc and amygdala) or hedonic reward value (pallidum and amygdala). The NAc and pallidum each contain a ‘hedonic hotspot’ in which U-opioid stimulation increases the liking of rewards.