
I am an amateur, there is no doubt about it. As usual, I stopped short after the first stanza, or rather I did not stop, I fled as fast as my feet could carry me.
Venus in Furs. You are cold and yet you fire the hearts of men. Wrap yourself in your despot's furs, for they become no one so well as you, cruel goddess of Beauty and Love!
I am enchanted but at the same time filled with horror by the cold coquetry of the splendid woman enveloping her charms in dark furs, and by the severity and harshness in her marble features. I feel a strange and urgent call which I am powerless to resist. I dress again and go out into the garden. I feel irresistibly drawn toward the meadow, toward my goddess, my beloved. The night is cool; I shiver. The air is laden with the heavy smell of flowers and foliage. It is intoxicating. What splendor! What music! A nightingale sighs. The stars quiver in the milky glow of the sky. The meadow is smooth as a mirror, like a frozen lake, and there in the center stands the statue of Venus, shining and stately.
The morning is sultry, the air full of intoxicating smells. I am again seated under my arbor, reading the Odyssey; I have come upon the story of the delightful witch who changed her suitors into wild beasts - a spicy tale of love in ancient times! Suddenly there is a rustling in the branches and in the grass, in the leaves of my elm tree, on the terrace: a woman's dress. It is she, Venus, but without her furs; the widow again, and yet it is Venus. Oh, what a woman!
She stands clothed in a vaporous white morning-gown, looking at me. What a graceful and poetic figure! She is not tall, but not short either; her face is not so much beautiful as charming and piquant as in the time of the French marquises. What sensitivity, what sweet impishness play about her features, her full lips, her not-too-small mouth! Her skin is so delicate that her blue veins show through even under the fine muslin that covers her arms and breasts. Her red hair - yes , she is a redhead , not blond or golden-haired - is gatherered in thick curls that tumble with tantalizing charm onto the nape of her neck. Her eyes alight on me like a shaft of green lightning - yes , her eyes are green and indescribably soft and powerful, green like precious stones, like the unfathomable depths of mountain lakes. She notices my intense disquiet that has made me impolite (for I have remained seated and still have my cap on my head) and she smiles mischievously. I finally rise and bow to her, and she comes toward me with a loud, almost childlike laugh. I stammer, as only an amateur or a fool can do on such an occasion.

I will give you a year's time to win me, to convince me that we are suited to each other, that we might live together. If you succeed, I will become your wife, and a wife, Severin, who will conscientiously and strictly perform all her duties. During this year we will live as though we were married—My blood rose to my head. In her eyes too there was a sudden flame—We will live together, share our daily life, so that we may find out whether we are really fitted for each other. I grant you all the rights of a husband, of a lover, of a friend. Are you satisfied?
She has drawn up a contract according to which I give my word of honor and agree under oath to be her slave, as long as she wishes. With her arm around my neck she reads this, unprecedented, incredible document to me. The end of each sentence she punctuates with a kiss.
No. I have thought things over. What special value would there be in owning a slave where everyone owns slaves. What I want is to have a slave, I alone, here in our civilized sober, Philistine world, and a slave who submits helplessly to my power solely on account of my beauty and personality, not because of law, of property rights, or compulsions. This attracts me.
It seems she has completely forgotten the contract, my slavehood.
Or was it actually only stubbornness? And she gave up her whole plan as soon as I no longer opposed her and submitted to her imperial whim?
I placed the furs about her, and Wanda slipped her right arm into the sleeve. This is the pose in Titian's picture. But now enough of joking. Don't always look so solemn, it makes me feel sad. As far as the world is concerned you are still merely my servant; you are not yet my slave, for you have not yet signed the contract. You are still free, and can leave me any moment. You have played your part magnificently. I have been delighted, but aren't you tired of it already, and don't you think I am abominable? Well, say something—I command it.
"You drive me to distraction! " She gives a slight pout of contempt and looks at me with narrowed, mocking eyes. "Give me the whip.” I look about the room. "No," she cries, "stay on your knees." She goes over to the mantelpiece, takes the whip off the ledge and, watching me with a smile, makes it whistle through the air; then she slowly rolls up the sleeves of her fur jacket.
"Wonderful woman!" - the words escape from my mouth. "Quiet, slave!" She scowls and suddenly strikes me with the whip. The next moment she bends over me with compassion and tenderly strokes the back of my neck. "Did I hurt you?" she asks, torn between fear and shame. "No," I reply, "and even if you had, the pain you cause is pure delight. Whip me if it gives you pleasure." "But it does not give me pleasure." Again the strange dizziness overcomes me. "Whip me," I implore, "whip me without mercy!" Wanda brandishes the whip and strikes twice. "Have you had enough now?" "No." "Seriously not?" "Whip me, I beg of you, it is a joy to me."
If only she would use the whip again. There is something uncanny in the kindness with which she treats me. I seem like a little captive mouse with which a beautiful cat prettily plays. She is ready at any moment to tear it to pieces, and my heart of a mouse threatens to burst. What are her intentions? What does she purpose to do with me?
”Keep it," she said, measuring me coldly. "You forget that is no longer a question as to whether you satisfy me as a man; as a slave you will doubtless do well enough."
”I forbid any sort of familiarity," she said, cutting my words short, "likewise you are not to come in unless I call or ring for you, and you are not to speak to me until you are spoken to. From now on your name is no longer Severin, but Gregor." I trembled with rage, and yet, unfortunately, I cannot deny it, I also felt a strange pleasure and stimulation.
”As a man of honor you must keep your oath and redeem your promise to follow me as slave whithersoever I demand and to obey whatever I command. Now leave me, Gregor!"
Suddenly she knocked at my window with the handle of her whip.
I now had the leisure to muse about the riddle of human existence, and about its greatest riddle of all—woman.
The silver buttons bear her coat of arms. I have the feeling of having been sold or of having bonded myself to the devil.
I lie on my wooden bed as on a rack; my arms and legs seem broken.
But there nevertheless is an element of poetry in the affair.
"Venus in Furs receives her slave. I can see that you are more than an ordinary dreamer, you don't remain far in arrears of your dreams; you are the sort of man who is ready to carry his dreams into effect, no matter how mad they are. 
I confess, I like this; it impresses me. There is strength in this, and strength is the only thing one respects. I actually believe that under unusual circumstances, in a period of great deeds, what seems to be your weakness would reveal itself as extraordinary power.
"You still remember your oath," she continued with an alluring smile, "now that everything is prepared, everything in readiness, I ask you once more, is it still your serious wish to become my slave?"
"But Wanda," I said, "you know that nothing gives me greater happiness than to serve you, to be your slave. I would give everything for the sake of feeling myself wholly in your power, even unto death—"
”So that you may know what it means to be absolutely in my power, I have drafted a second agreement in which you declare that you have decided to kill yourself. In that way I can even kill you, if I so desire."
"Mme. von Dunajew on her behalf agrees as his mistress to appear as often as possible in her furs, especially when she purposes some cruelty toward her slave."
She extended her foot beyond the hem of white satin, and I, the supersensual fool, pressed my lips upon it.
”You used to dream of being the slave, the plaything of a beautiful woman, and now you imagine you are a free human being, a man, my lover-you fool! A sign from me, and you are a slave again. Down on your knees!"
"You are indeed cruel," he said, turning to Wanda. "Only inordinately fond of pleasure," she replied with a wild sort of humor. "Pleasure alone lends value to existence; whoever enjoys does not easily part from life, whoever suffers or is needy meets death like a friend.
"But whoever wants to enjoy must take life gaily in the sense of the ancient world; he dare not hesitate to enjoy at the expense of others; he must never feel pity; he must be ready to harness others to his carriage or his plough as though they were animals. He must know how to make slaves of men who feel and would enjoy as he does, and use them for his service and pleasure without remorse. It is not his affair whether they like it, or whether they go to rack and ruin. He must always remember this, that if they had him in their power, as he has them they would act in exactly the same way, and he would have to pay for their pleasure with his sweat and blood and soul. That was the world of the ancients: pleasure and cruelty, liberty and slavery went hand in hand. People who want to live like the gods of Olympus must of necessity have slaves whom they can toss into their fish-ponds, and gladiators who will do battle, the while they banquet, and they must not mind if by chance a bit of blood bespatters them."
To labor and to do my duty was comforting like a drink of fresh water. The cure was cruel, but radical; but the main point is, I have been cured.
"The moral of the tale is this: whoever allows himself to be whipped, deserves to be whipped.