
Take then, this little gift in the spirit in which I send it. If it is carefully read and considered by you, you will learn my extreme desire that you should attain that greatness which fortune and your other attributes promise. And if, my lord, from the mountain top of your greatness, you will sometimes turn your eyes to these lower regions, you will see how undeservedly I suffer great and continued bad fortune.
Everyone admits how good it is in a prince to keep faith, and to live with integrity and not with trickery. Nevertheless our experience has been that those princes who have done great things have held good faith of little account, and have known how to get their way through cheating. In the end they have overcome those who have relied on their word. You must know there are two ways of winning, one by the rules, and the other by force. The first method is suited to men, the second to beasts. But because the first is frequently not sufficient, it is necessary to use the second. Therefore it is necessary for a prince to understand how to use the ways of both the beast and the man. This has been taught by example to princes by ancient writers, who describe how Achilles and many other princes of old were given to Chiron, who was half horse and half man, to nurse who brought them up in his discipline. This means that they had for a teacher one who was half beast and half human. So, it is necessary for a prince to know how to make use of both natures, and that one without the other is not sufficient. A prince, therefore, being forced knowingly to adopt the beast, ought to choose the fox and the lion; because the lion cannot defend himself against traps and the fox cannot defend himself against wolves. Therefore, it is necessary to be a fox to discover the traps and a lion to frighten the wolves. Those who rely simply on the lion do not understand what they are doing. Therefore a wise lord cannot, nor ought he, keep faith when such promises may be turned against him, and when the reasons that caused him to promise no longer exist. If men were entirely good this principle would not hold, but because they are bad, and will not keep faith with you, you too are not bound to observe it with them. There will never be a shortage of good reasons to excuse going back on your word. Endless modern examples of this could be given, showing how many agreements have been broken by princes, and how he who has known best how to employ the fox has succeeded best.
Besides this, one cannot by fair dealing, and without injury to others, satisfy the nobles, but you can satisfy the people, for their goals are more proper than those of the nobles. The nobles wish to oppress, while the people only desire not to be oppressed. A prince can never secure himself against a hostile people, because they are too many. On the other hand, he can secure himself from the nobles, as they are few in number. The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them.
Therefore a prince, so long as he keeps his subjects united and loyal, ought not to mind the criticism of cruelty. By making an example of a few people, he will be more merciful than those who, through too much mercy, allow rebellions to arise, from which follow murders or robberies. These are likely to injure the whole people, while those killings which are commanded by the prince only affect the individual. And of all princes, it is impossible for the new prince to avoid the reputation for cruelty. 
People are so simple, and so subject to present necessities, that anyone who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will allow himself to be deceived.
Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities I have described, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And I shall dare to say this also, that to have these qualities and always to observe them is dangerous, and that to appear to have them is useful. A prince should appear merciful, faithful, kind, religious, upright, but should be flexible enough to make use of the opposite qualities when it is necessary.
For this reason a prince ought to take care that he never lets anything slip from his lips that is not full of the five qualities mentioned above, so that he may appear to everyone who sees and hears him completely merciful, faithful, kind, upright, and religious. There is nothing more necessary to appear to have than this last quality. Men judge generally more by the eye than by the hand, because everybody can see you, but few come in touch with you. Everyone sees what you appear to be, but few really know what you are, and those few dare not oppose the opinion of the many, who have the power of the state to defend them. In the actions of all men, and especially of princes, which it is not wise to challenge, one judges by the result.
Hence a prince who wishes to survive must know how to do wrong, and how to do or not do wrong according to necessity. Therefore, putting on one side imaginary things concerning a prince and discussing those which are real, I say that all men when they are spoken of, and chiefly princes for being more highly placed, are remarkable for some of those qualities which bring them either blame or praise. Thus one has the reputation of being liberal, another mean. One is said to be generous, one greedy; one cruel, one kind; one disloyal another faithful; one weak and cowardly, another bold and brave; one friendly, another proud; one pleasure loving, another restrained; one sincere, another not truthful; one hard, another easy; one serious, another foolish; one religious, another unbelieving, and the like. And I know that everyone will confess that it would be most worthy in a prince to exhibit all the above qualities that are considered good. But, because they can neither be entirely possessed nor observed in any one person, for human conditions do not permit it, it is necessary for him to be sufficiently careful so that he may know how to avoid the criticism of those things considered bad which would lose him his state. Also, he should avoid, if it is possible, bad behaviour which would not lose him his state, but, if this is not possible, he may with less hesitation do it. Moreover, he need not feel uneasy about being criticised for that bad behaviour which is necessary to maintain the state, because if everything is considered carefully, it will be found that something which looks like virtue, if followed would be his ruin; while something else, which looks wrong, may bring him security and wealth.
When princes are seen to be capable they gain more men and make them more loyal than ancient blood. This is because men are attracted more by the present than by the past. When they find the present good, they enjoy it and seek no further. 
Because this life is short and many are the pains that we all suffer in life’s grinding course, we’re following our whims and passing time we know will not return, since those who renounce pleasure to live with anguish and with suffering will never know the world’s fair wiles, or wicked ways, or know the cruel events that so oppress us all as mortal men. To flee such tedium, the solitary life is what we have chosen; in joy and celebration, we live as fair young men and happy nymphs. We’ve come here now, and bring our harmony to you, to honour with our song this happy feast and sweetest company.
Anyone can see how happy the man is who is born a fool and believes everything. Ambition does not drive him, fear does not move him, the two things that are so often the seed of tedium and sorrow. This judge of ours, in his desire for children, would believe that pigs fly; and he’s put every other good thing out of his mind and set his heart on this alone.
O sweetest night, o blessed hours of calm and darkness, the boon companions of desire-filled lovers, in you there gather all the pleasures that make you the single source of our blessedness. You dispense just rewards to all the throngs of lovers that befriend you for their tireless labours. O happy hours, you set the ice of every breast afire with love.
I’ve been so anxious and I still am. Fortune and Nature do, indeed, hold our lives in balance: no good ever comes from one without the other tipping the scales with grief. The more my hopes have risen, the more fear has surged too. Oh, alas! Can I possibly survive this anguish, tormented by these fears and this hope. I’m like a ship, buffeted by two opposing winds, that grows all the more fearful the closer it is to port. Messer Nicia’s simplemindedness gives me hope; Lucrezia’s prudence and firmness fills me with fear. Alas, I find no rest anywhere. Sometimes I try to control myself; I reproach myself for my wild agitation and I say to myself: “What are you doing? Have you gone mad? When you get her, what next? You’ll realize your mistake, you’ll regret the effort and the worry you put into it. Don’t you know how little good there is to be found in the things that man desires, when compared to what man imagines he’ll find there?” On the other hand, the worst that can happen to you is that you die and go to hell; plenty of people have died, and plenty of good men have gone to hell. Should you be ashamed of going there yourself? Turn and face your destiny; flee ill, and if you can’t escape it, take it like a man. Don’t just roll over, don’t give in like a woman.” And so I try to pull myself together, but not for long, because I’m assailed from every quarter by such desire to have just one chance with her that I feel myself faltering from head to toe. My legs wobble, my gut churns, my heart pounds in my chest, my arms go limp, my tongue’s numb, my eyes glaze over, my head spins. 