
They railed against the philosophy of the Garden. …They called it crude, lascivious, lazy, porcine, drunk, gluttonous, dishonest, profligate, malicious, wicked, plagiaristic, arrogant, complacent, conceited, uneducated, and so on. In short, they said that Epicurus and his disciples were pigs unworthy of inclusion in the pantheon. Such slander persists in the canon. Ataraxia, as the definition of pleasure — that is, the absence of disturbance through a skillful management of natural and necessary pleasures — is considered the trivial pleasure of an animal lost in primitive enjoyments. Atomism — that is, reducing the world to a combination of atoms within a void — is considered a theory for those with no intelligence. Be-cause he welcomed slaves, women, and foreigners into the Garden, it was said that they all fell victim to his unbridled sexuality, and the like. The details of these slanders haven’t changed for twenty centuries. 
What is the common point between that whole constellation of thinkers and their uncompromising attitudes? For one, they share a formidable concern with deconstructing myths and fables, rendering this world inhabitable and desirable. They want to rid us of gods and superstitions, fear and existential anxiety about material causality. They want to ease the fear of death with therapy here and now rather than invite death for a graceful exit. They come up with solutions relying on the actual world and actual people. They prefer viable, modest philosophical propositions to sublime but uninhabitable conceptual edifices. They refuse to turn pain and suffering into paths to knowledge and personal redemption. They propose pleasure, enjoyment, the common good, and gladly accepted contracts. They take control of their bodies and don’t hate them. They master their passions and impulses, desires and emotions, instead of brutally extirpating them. What is the aspiration of the Epicurean project?
The pure pleasure of existing: a project that is always welcome. 
Pleasure scares people. They are scared of the word and the actions, reality, and discourses around it. It either scares people or makes them hysterical. There are too many private and personal issues, too many alienating, intimate, painful, wretched, and miserable details. There are secret and hidden deficiencies. There are too many things in the way of just being, living, and enjoying. Hence, people reject the word. They produce spiteful critique that is aggressive and in bad faith or that is simply evasive. Disrespect, discredit, contempt, and disdain are all means for avoiding the subject of pleasure. 
We should always have more pleasure than pain. In all hedonist ethics, suffering — the suffering that we undergo and that is inflicted on us — is the absolute evil. Consequently, absolute good corresponds to pleasure, defined as the absence of troubles, a serenity that’s acquired, conquered, and maintained, a tranquility of the soul and spirit. 
But this conceptual game can be complex. The mental tension that it entails may seem radically impractical since it requires a permanent concern for others. It seems like a perpetual ethical drama, an interminable moral theater; it seems like a titanic venture, something untenable — no more viable than the Judeo- Christian morality of holiness. 
But it’s untenable only if there is a lack of neuronal training that permits us to act reflexively. These calculations need not require painful efforts if we have preexisting moral education and our nervous fibers are functioning properly. On the contrary the fluidity of its unfolding generates a kind of delight. There is a real pleasure to be had from acting ethically and practicing morality; it activates and rewards the hedonic fibers in our cerebral matter. 
 It hates itself, and it harbors the extraordinary fiction of an immaterial and immortal soul. It delights in the death drive that the dominant ideology cultivates. All of these show the unfortunate tendency of human beings to take pleasure in passive objects that can be dominated by violence. The archetypal heterosexual couple, to be specific, is also subject to brutality. 
One of the staples of this machine that produces eunuchs, virgins, saints, mothers, and wives is to demean the feminine within the woman. She is the first victim of this antierotism and is held responsible for everything on this earth. In order to establish this logic of sexual inferiority, the West creates the myth of desire as lack. 
What does it say? Specifically, that men and women proceed from a primitive unity split up by the gods as punishment for their insolent enjoyment of perfect totality. Pleasure is defined as the fantastic perfection of the spherical, complete animal. Desire-as-lack and pleasure that fills this lack are the cause of uneasiness and sexual wretchedness. 
What would a libertine feminism look like? Or even a feminine libertinage? Ideally, the epithet “Don Juan” would stop being something valorizing of men and depreciative of women, for whom the equivalent word is very often “nymphomaniac.” It is profoundly unjust to use a word that carries the positivity of the literary register in order to qualify men with light-hearted eros, but to employ psychiatric vocabulary for the same tropism in women. 
In order to rid us of the feudal libertinage that gives pride of place to the male and turns women into prey, like the prey displayed in a hunting painting, I propose a libertinage that is postmodern, egalitarian, and also feminist. This is needed because original feminism has, for a long time, advocated sexist antipathy in response to male misogyny In fact, it has reproduced class warfare between the sexes. It has been useful for its dialectical role in counterweighting the scales, but this feminism strikes me as outdated. 
Such elective and erotic microsocieties gain nothing from being  out in the transparency and light of the public. By being discrete,  even secret, they gain efficacy by not exposing themselves to the  moralizing judgments of those who lack the courage, qualities, temperament, imagination, and audacity to aspire to such erotic diversity, let alone partake of it. Following concepts as old as time, they  drag anything through the mud that they are not able or don’t know  how to attain. There’s no reason to give them the chance to spout a false moralism that masks their true resentment. 
Discretion has another advantage: it prevents the jealousy (which is proof of our irrefutable membership in the animal kingdom, a clear demonstration of the truth of ethology) that devastates relationships in which a little bit of culture leads to a lot of eroticism. Traditionally, no one consents to another’s joy if that joy does not pass through them first. Such a pleasure leads the excluded party to believe they are not capable of providing the pleasure that a third party has given their partner. To avoid jealousy, it is best simply to not put yourself in the position to feel it . . . Discretion on your part requires you to refuse to accept another’s indiscretion. 
Above all, a being’s humanity requires at least a basic capacity to  perceive the world, to feel it, to have sensual apprehension. To have  this, one must have a degree of nervous system development. The  first days and weeks are not enough time for the aggregate of matter  and cells to come together to render it more than something other  than life without personal reality The brain must be able to have two  reactions to stimuli: the capacity to feel pleasure and the capacity to  experience suffering. This is the foundation of Hedonism. Scientifically, this anatomical possibility shows itself around the twenty-fifth  week of fetal development. That is the time that the person emerges  from the nothing and enters into humanity, even though it had been  alive since the spermatozoid first met the ovum. 
Then, much later, an individual’s humanity is defined through the  combination of a consciousness of self, other, and the world. It is further defined by interactions between self and self, self and other, and  self and reality. Whoever loses sight of what he is, what others are,  and what the world is abandons his humanity, even if they remain  alive. But what precedes humanity and what comes after it do not  carry the same ontological weight: a neutral embryo weighs less than  a corpse saturated in memory affection, and history. 
In the stages before and after the emergence of humanity, all  human actions are ontologically justified and legitimate. Before it,  there may be genetic selection, embryonic treatment, sorting, contraception, abortion, and transgenesis. After it, as in the case of cerebral death, artificially prolonged life, and an exceedingly long coma,  we may opt for euthanasia and organ donation. These are the novel worlds: constructing a new body out of exterior  elements; mixing together the animal and the human; artificializing nature and transgressing it with surgery and genetics; abolishing the  Christian flesh; distinguishing the nomadic body and the critical  body, the sickly ideal body and the healthy materialist and vitalist  body, the atomic body and the Dionysian body. These are what it  would take for an expansion of the body, for the de-Christianization  of the flesh, for the transcendence of humanity, for the creation of a  metaphysics of artifacts. In this new metaphysical field, how do we  define identity? Where is it found? What is it?
Let us change the casuistry: we can cut off a man’s leg, and then  the other, and then an arm and the other arm, and he does not cease to be. We can remove an ill organ from him and replace it with another one — a heart, a liver, a lung — and he remains himself. We can  even graft a new face onto him if his is somehow lost, ruined, burnt,  mutilated, or otherwise harmed. He still remains himself. So when  does he lose his identity? 