They railed against the philosophy of the Garden. …They called it crude, lascivious, lazy, porcine, drunk, gluttonous, dishonest, profligate, malicious, wicked, plagiaristic, arrogant, complacent, conceited, uneducated, and so on. In short, they said that Epicurus and his disciples were pigs unworthy of inclusion in the pantheon. Such slander persists in the canon. Ataraxia, as the definition of pleasure — that is, the absence of disturbance through a skillful management of natural and necessary pleasures — is considered the trivial pleasure of an animal lost in primitive enjoyments. Atomism — that is, reducing the world to a combination of atoms within a void — is considered a theory for those with no intelligence. Be-cause he welcomed slaves, women, and foreigners into the Garden, it was said that they all fell victim to his unbridled sexuality, and the like. The details of these slanders haven’t changed for twenty centuries. 
They refuse to turn pain and suffering into paths to knowledge and personal redemption. They propose pleasure, enjoyment, the common good, and gladly accepted contracts. They take control of their bodies and don’t hate them. They master their passions and impulses, desires and emotions, instead of brutally extirpating them. What is the aspiration of the Epicurean project?
The pure pleasure of existing: a project that is always welcome. 
Pleasure scares people. They are scared of the word and the actions, reality, and discourses around it. It either scares people or makes them hysterical. There are too many private and personal issues, too many alienating, intimate, painful, wretched, and miserable details. There are secret and hidden deficiencies. There are too many things in the way of just being, living, and enjoying. Hence, people reject the word. 
We should always have more pleasure than pain. In all hedonist ethics, suffering — the suffering that we undergo and that is inflicted on us — is the absolute evil. Consequently, absolute good corresponds to pleasure, defined as the absence of troubles, a serenity that’s acquired, conquered, and maintained, a tranquility of the soul and spirit. 
But this conceptual game can be complex. The mental tension that it entails may seem radically impractical since it requires a permanent concern for others. It seems like a perpetual ethical drama, an interminable moral theater; it seems like a titanic venture, something untenable — no more viable than the Judeo-Christian morality of holiness. 
There is a real pleasure to be had from acting ethically and practicing morality; it activates and rewards the hedonic fibers in our cerebral matter. 
It hates itself, and it harbors the extraordinary fiction of an immaterial and immortal soul. It delights in the death drive that the dominant ideology cultivates. All of these show the unfortunate tendency of human beings to take pleasure in passive objects that can be dominated by violence. 
One of the staples of this machine that produces eunuchs, virgins, saints, mothers, and wives is to demean the feminine within the woman. She is the first victim of this antierotism and is held responsible for everything on this earth. In order to establish this logic of sexual inferiority, the West creates the myth of desire as lack. 
Pleasure is defined as the fantastic perfection of the spherical, complete animal. Desire-as-lack and pleasure that fills this lack are the cause of uneasiness and sexual wretchedness. 