In less extreme cases, when individuals lack the necessary competencies and self-regulatory plans and strategies—the specific social knowledge required to construct and generate context-appropriate behavior in a given domain—it also will constrain both the elevation and shape of the situation-behavior profiles. To illustrate, consider the finding that indexes of the ability to delay gratification in preschool may predict such outcomes as academic performance and social competence in adolescence. Individuals who lack relevant competencies for goal-directed self-regulation beginning early in life face many constraints that may limit the potential behaviors they are able to generate. In contrast, those who have available the competencies to generate a type of behavior (e.g., purposeful delay of gratification for the sake of desired but delayed future outcomes) then can choose if and when and where to perform such behavior. When social and cognitive competence is high, behavioral freedom is increased, and expressed in stable but discriminative choices seen in a well-defined, distinctive person-situation profile.
In the last three decades the field of personality has tried to reconcile the fact that the individual's behavior often is not consistent across situations, on the one hand, with the fundamental assumption and intuitive conviction that personality must be stable on the other hand. The proposed theory dissolves this apparent dilemma because it considers the variability of behaviors within individuals across situations not as "error" nor as "due to situation rather than to the person," but as a meaningful reflection of the enduring personality system. It predicts that the person's behaviors in a domain will change from one situation to another—when the if changes, so will the then—even if the personality system were to remain entirely unchanged.
The hypothesized personality system functions literally as a whole—a unique network of organized interconnections among cognitions and affects, not a set of separate, independent discrete variables, forces, factors, or tendencies. 
By becoming coercive or violent when encountering cues that could be construed as rejection, however, they also create unsatisfying intimate relations in which they ultimately may become rejected. If the partner copes with violent behavior by becoming passive, withdrawn, and by appeasing the partner, these relationships may be maintained even after they become painful and destructive, especially when reinforced by tender reunions after violent fights. 
To summarize, through the interactions of the personality system's structure with the features of situations that activate characteristic processing dynamics, individuals may select, seek, interpret, respond to, and generate stable social situations and experiences in patterns that are typical for them, ultimately in part shaping their own social environments.
These interactions seem to reflect two processes. They include selective exposure to (and construction of) particular types of situations as individuals construct their own life space, and also the individual's characteristic ways of reacting to those situations, cognitively, affectively, and behaviorally. As individuals form and pursue their personal projects, these person-context interactions progressively define and generate their unique trajectories—their personal vitae of experiences, relationships, and situations—that constitute their distinctive life course.