
The construct of personality rests on the assumption that individuals are characterized by distinctive qualities that are relatively invariant across situations and over time. In a century of personality research, however, abundant evidence has documented that individual differences in social behaviors tend to be surprisingly variable across different situations. Although this finding has been interpreted as evidence against the utility of the personality construct, we show that it need not be and, on the contrary, that this variability reflects some of the essence of personality coherence. When personality is conceptualized as a stable system that mediates how the individual selects, construes, and processes social information and generates social behaviors, it becomes possible to account simultaneously for both the invariant qualities of the underlying personality and the predictable variability across situations in some of its characteristic behavioral expressions.
We begin with a review of recent empirical data demonstrating that individuals are characterized not only by stable individual differences in their overall levels of behavior, but also by distinctive and stable patterns of behavior variability across situations. These findings invite a new conception of personality in which such patterns of variability are seen not as mere "error" but also as reflecting essential expressions of the same underlying stable personality system that produces the individual's characteristic average levels of behavior. Toward that goal, we propose a cognitive-affective system theory of personality, drawing in part on the growing body of evidence and theorizing on individual differences in social and emotional information processing.
This theory will be shown to take account of both the stability of the personality system and the variability of the individual's behaviors across situations in ways that reconcile numerous previously paradoxical findings and resolve basic controversies within personality and social psychology over many decades.
In one long-standing tradition of personality psychology, individual differences in social behaviors have been conceptualized in terms of behavioral dispositions or traits that predispose individuals to engage in relevant behaviors. In its simplest form, dispositions and their behavioral expressions were assumed by definition to correspond directly: the more a person has a conscientious disposition, for example, the more conscientious the behavior will be.
In less extreme cases, when individuals lack the necessary competencies and self-regulatory plans and strategies—the specific social knowledge required to construct and generate context-appropriate behavior in a given domain—it also will constrain both the elevation and shape of the situation-behavior profiles. To illustrate, consider the finding that indexes of the ability to delay gratification in preschool may predict such outcomes as academic performance and social competence in adolescence. Individuals who lack relevant competencies for goal-directed self-regulation beginning early in life face many constraints that may limit the potential behaviors they are able to generate. In contrast, those who have available the competencies to generate a type of behavior (e.g., purposeful delay of gratification for the sake of desired but delayed future outcomes) then can choose if and when and where to perform such behavior. When social and cognitive competence is high, behavioral freedom is increased, and expressed in stable but discriminative choices seen in a well-defined, distinctive person-situation profile.
In the last three decades the field of personality has tried to reconcile the fact that the individual's behavior often is not consistent across situations, on the one hand, with the fundamental assumption and intuitive conviction that personality must be stable on the other hand. The proposed theory dissolves this apparent dilemma because it considers the variability of behaviors within individuals across situations not as "error" nor as "due to situation rather than to the person," but as a meaningful reflection of the enduring personality system. It predicts that the person's behaviors in a domain will change from one situation to another—when the if changes, so will the then—even if the personality system were to remain entirely unchanged.
The hypothesized personality system functions literally as a whole—a unique network of organized interconnections among cognitions and affects, not a set of separate, independent discrete variables, forces, factors, or tendencies. 
By becoming coercive or violent when encountering cues that could be construed as rejection, however, they also create unsatisfying intimate relations in which they ultimately may become rejected. If the partner copes with violent behavior by becoming passive, withdrawn, and by appeasing the partner, these relationships may be maintained even after they become painful and destructive, especially when reinforced by tender reunions after violent fights. 
To summarize, through the interactions of the personality system's structure with the features of situations that activate characteristic processing dynamics, individuals may select, seek, interpret, respond to, and generate stable social situations and experiences in patterns that are typical for them, ultimately in part shaping their own social environments.
These interactions seem to reflect two processes. They include selective exposure to (and construction of) particular types of situations as individuals construct their own life space, and also the individual's characteristic ways of reacting to those situations, cognitively, affectively, and behaviorally. As individuals form and pursue their personal projects, these person-context interactions progressively define and generate their unique trajectories—their personal vitae of experiences, relationships, and situations—that constitute their distinctive life course.
Most important for the analysis of the nature of personality invariance and its behavioral expressions, process models seem to suggest that clues about the person's underlying qualities—the construals and goals, the motives and passions, that drive the individual—may be seen in when and where a type of behavior is manifested, not only in its overall frequency. If so, the patterns of situation-behavior relationships shown by a person might be a possible key to individuality and personality coherence, rather than an error source to be eliminated systematically.
From the perspective of a process conception of personality one must ask: Are the individual's distinctive if...then..., situation-behavior relations within a particular domain of social behavior stable and meaningful? Granted that some of the variation in the individual's behavior across situations is random fluctuation (i.e., from unknown sources), is there a component that still may be enduring and reflective of underlying invariance? If the observed variability is simply "error," it needs to be removed; if it is potentially stable and meaningful, it may contain important clues about the underlying personality system, reflecting something of the essence of personality coherence and the system that produces it. Given these theoretical questions, it becomes necessary to determine empirically if distinctive and meaningful profiles of situation-behavior relations in fact characterize individual differences in the organization of social behavior as it occurs in vivo across everyday situations over an extended period of time.
Data on the existence and meaningfulness of the hypothesized, stable if...then..., situation-behavior relations came from an extensive observational study conducted in a residential summer camp setting for children.
Note that if personality is conceptualized in terms of behavioral dispositions, the individual's variation in behavior across situations reflects differences among situations in people's typical levels of behavior (e.g., more cheerful at parties than at funerals), as well as the effects of measurement noise or random fluctuation. Therefore, when the data are standardized and rescaled relative to the typical level of behaviors expected in each situation, removing the main effects of situations, the remaining variation in an individual's behavior across situations should simply be "noise." Then, the mean stability of the intraindividual pattern of variation should be zero. On the other hand, if the observed situation-behavior profile reflects enduring qualities of the individual, it should show some significant stability despite the noise. As these examples illustrate, the stability of intraindividual profiles varied from one individual to another and for different types of behavior. To test the overall hypothesis, the ipsatively computed profile stabilities for each individual were computed and the statistical significance of the group mean stability was tested.
Furthermore, as shown elsewhere, the degree that an individual is characterized by stable patterns of situation-behavior relations is negatively related to the level of overall cross-situational consistency that can be expected. These profiles allow a glimpse of the essential configuration or pattern of behavior variation in relation to situations that is expressive of personality invariance but is completely bypassed in the traditional search for cross-situational consistency. Instead of searching for the traditional cross-situational consistency coefficient that has been pursued for most of the century, the findings of profile stability suggest that personality coherence must be reflected in the intraindividual stable pattern of variability.
