Even before “I” knows it, “I” is made a prisoner, it becomes the victim of a fool’s deal. What it has mistaken for absolute liberty, the necessary reciprocity, without which language is impossible, is but the surrender, a deal that overthrows the “I” at the mercy of the slightest word. 
In recent years in Paris, language as a phenomenon has dominated modern theoretical systems and the social sciences, and has entered the political discussions of the lesbian and women's liberation movements. This is because it relates to an important political field where what is at play is power, or more than that, a network of powers, since there is a multiplicity of languages which constantly act upon the social reality. The importance of language as such as a political stake has only recently been perceived. But the gigantic development of linguistics, the multiplication of schools of linguistics, the advent of the sciences of communication, and the technicality of the metalanguages that these sciences utilize, represent the symptoms of the importance of that political stake.
They call upon unconscious processes, for example, which require the exchange of women as a necessary condition for every society. According to them, that is what the unconscious tells us with authority, and the symbolic order, without which there is no meaning, no language, no society, depends on it. But what does women being exchanged mean if not that they are dominated? No wonder then that there is only one unconscious, and that it is heterosexual. It is an unconscious which looks too consciously after the interests of the masters in whom it lives for them to be dispossessed of their concepts so easily. 10 Besides, domination is denied; there is no slavery of women, there is difference. To which I will answer with this statement made by a Rumanian peasant at a public meeting in 1848: "Why do the gentlemen say it was not slavery, for we know it to have been slavery, this sorrow that we have sorrowed." Yes, we know it, and this science of oppression cannot be taken away from us. 
What is woman? Panic, general alarm for an active defense. Frankly, it is a problem that the lesbians do not have because of a change of perspective, and it would be incorrect to say that lesbians associate, make love, live with women, for "woman" has meaning only in heterosexual systems of thought and heterosexual economic systems. Lesbians are not women.
Then the beaks are forced between the lips, and it is impossible to offer any real resistance despite their apparent fragility. When the feeders have gone, at times some of the bodies start to make long and sweet raucous howls, never-ending. Or some start to laugh and shake their heads in all directions. They are drunk, to tell the truth, and they shout, they make all kinds of noises with their throats. Others fall asleep. Time stands still. Now and then the noise of a petal falling attracts attention. Or it’s the whistling of one of the numerous jets of water at the end of its run and about to stop. One hardly speaks. From the body, in this position, only the head can perceive the other parts when looking down, the cylindrical chest, the stomach, the legs both fused and divided, whose diminishing shape resembles the tail of the big blue fish that can be seen in the pools. It is said that the bodies used to live in the oceans. They were called mermaids.
At a given moment the big apes plunge in long-handled nets to gather the bodies one after another. They struggle violently. Many don’t let themselves be taken the first time or else they manage to upset their net and they escape as fast as they can. In the end all the bodies are taken prisoner. During this capture the big apes show neither impatience nor anger. They treat the bodies very gently and rock them in their arms to calm them when they are caught. Later on they place them on tables in the relaxation rooms, and they start to massage them by covering them with benzoin oil. Their skin gleams. Sometimes one of the bodies, slipping in the hands of the masseur, falls to the floor and lets out a loud cry. The beings come to the garden when they organize parties. 
For the ones so summoned, there is no other option but to bow their head to their chest or close their eyes. Sometimes the beings ask mocking questions. No one responds even when threatened with beatings. When one of the bodies in these circumstances is taken with fear and rolls in the sand of the path, one of the beings uses a whistle to call the big apes. Without waiting for them to arrive, the beings turn and leave together, laughing and making remarks. The body writhes about on the ground and rolls over, sometimes on the belly with head held high, sometimes on the back, split legs convulsively projected in the air. One of the big apes seizes the body, rocking to calm it, and wipes away the sand sticking to the recently oiled skin. At times during the feasts the milking of the bodies takes place in the garden paths instead of the relaxation rooms. The big apes place the milking machines on the sexes in the presence of the beings. On these occasions there are a lot of beings. 
The trumpets flourish as the being flings its hands in studded gloves at full speed on the body’s backside. The music covers the cries except for those who are nearby. Only the satisfied bodies enjoy the beating. Other than the pain caused by the blows, the facedown position on the being’s knees is in itself a source of misery because of the enormous pressure exerted by the body when bellydown on the sex. Each blow applied to the buttocks is such a shock to the body that the heart stops beating. Sometimes the winner is carried away unconscious to a deck chair to the rapturous applause of the standing beings. 
Their task consists of making the bodies talk. They themselves don’t say anything. When the bodies refuse to talk in the course of the guardians’ intervention, the feeders are called to pour the appropriate liquids into their mouths. That’s what the guardians call untying the tongues. Tongues thus untied talk, and even if one plugs up one’s ears the repeated recriminations are heard.
These are so-called creative games. To easily manage them the big apes regroup the satisfied bodies. 
It is preserved in this form in the cheeks that have developed interior pockets from uninterrupted suction. It is there that the desired putrefaction or fermentation takes place. This action is systematically carried out by all of the bodies, including those that are slumping in their deck chairs. Each one contributes a concentration so intense that the restlessness is calmed. From now on silence reigns in the garden paths. The creative games of the satisfied bodies are not interrupted. The reading sessions go on, too, with eyes shut, all of one’s attention fixed on the putrefaction in progress. The time to act may be tomorrow. And if it takes dying, hold on to this sovereign happiness, vile creature to whom nothing on this earth belongs, except to die. Is it not written that in risking death you will cease to be a slave? 
Therefore, these symbols are very easy to impose, through therapy and theorization, upon the collective and individual unconscious. We are taught that the unconscious, with perfectly good taste, structures itself upon metaphors, for example, the name-of-the-father, the Oedipus complex, castration, the murder-or-death-of-the-father, the exchange of women, etc. If the unconscious, however, is easy to control, it is not just by anybody. Similar to mystical revelations, the apparition of symbols in the psyche demands multiple interpretations. Only specialists can accomplish the deciphering of the unconscious. Only they, the psychoanalysts, are allowed (authorized?) to organize and interpret psychic manifestations which will show the symbol in its full meaning. And while the symbolic language is extremely poor and essentially lacunary, the languages or metalanguages which interpret it are developing, each one of them, with a richness, a display, that only logical exegeses (?) have equalled.
The discourses which particularly oppress all of us, lesbians, women, and homosexual men, are those discourses which take for granted that what founds society, any society, is heterosexuality. These discourses speak about us and claim to say the truth in an apolitical field, as if anything of that which signifies could escape the political in this moment of history, and as if, in what concerns us, politically insignificant signs could exist. These discourses of heterosexuality oppress us in the sense that they prevent us from speaking unless we speak in their terms. Everything which puts them into question is at once disregarded as elementary . Our refusal of the totalizing interpretation of psychoanalysis makes the theoreticians say that we neglect the symbolic dimension. These discourses deny us every possibility of creating our own categories. But their most ferocious action is the unrelenting tyranny that they exert upon our physical and mental selves.
When we use the overgeneralizing term "ideology" to designate all the discourses of the dominating group, we relegate these discourses to the domain of lrreal Ideas, we forget the material (physical) violence that they directly do to the oppressed people, a violence produced by the abstract and "scientific" discourses as well as by the discourses of the mass media. I would like to insist on the material oppression of individuals by discourses, and I would like to underline its immediate effects through the example of pornography.
Pornographic images, films, magazine photos, publicity posters on the walls of the cities, constitute a discourse, and this discourse covers our world with its signs, and this discourse has a meaning: it signifies that women are dominated.  Not only does it maintain very close relations with the social reality which is our oppression (economically and politically), but also it is in itself real since it is one of the aspects of oppression, since it exerts a precise power over us. The pornographic discourse is part of the strategies of violence which are exercised upon us: it humiliates, it degrades, it is a crime against our "humanity."