Pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself, because it is pain, but because occasionally circumstances occur in which toil and pain can procure him some great pleasure. To take a trivial example, which of us ever undertakes laborious physical exercise, except to obtain some advantage from it? But who has any right to find fault with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that has no annoying consequences, or one who avoids a pain that produces no resultant pleasure? On the other hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are so beguiled and demoralized by the charms of the pleasure of the moment, so blinded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are bound to ensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as saying through shrinking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when our power of choice is untrammelled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is to be welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain emergencies and owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures, or else he endures pains to avoid worse pains.
In order to know virtue, we must acquaint ourselves with vice. Only then can we know the true measure of a man. Truth titillates the imagination far less than fiction. The impossibility of outraging nature is the greatest anguish man can know. It is only by sacrificing everything to sensual pleasure that this being known as Man, cast into the world in spite of himself, may succeed in sowing a few roses on the thorns of life. It is only by imitating the vices of others that I have earned my misfortunes. Nothing quite encourages as does one's first unpunished crime. Beauty belongs to the sphere of the simple, the ordinary, whilst ugliness is something extraordinary, and there is no question but that every ardent imagination prefers in lubricity, the extraordinary to the commonplace. It is only by enlarging the scope of one’s tastes and one’s fantasies, by sacrificing everything to pleasure, that the unfortunate individual called Man, thrown despite himself into this sad world, can succeed in gathering a few roses among life’s thorns. What we are doing here is only the image of what we would like to do.	
The first case of such a check on the pleasure-principle is perfectly familiar to us in the regularity of its occurrence. We know that the pleasure-principle is adjusted to a primary mode of operation on the part of the psychic apparatus, and that for the preservation of the organism amid the difficulties of the external world it is useless and indeed extremely dangerous. Under the influence of the instinct of the ego for self-preservation it is replaced by the ‘reality-principle’, which without giving up the intention of ultimately attaining pleasure yet demands and enforces the postponement of satisfaction, the renunciation of manifold possibilities of it, and the temporary endurance of ‘pain’ on the long and circuitous road to pleasure. The pleasure-principle however remains for a long time the method of operation of the sex impulses, which are not so easily educable, and it happens over and over again that whether acting through these impulses or operating in the ego itself it prevails over the reality-principle to the detriment of the whole organism.	
All men seek happiness. This is without exception. Whatever different means they employ, they all tend to this end. The cause of some going to war, and of others avoiding it, is the same desire in both, attended with different views. The will never takes the least step but to this object. This is the motive of every action of every man, even of those who hang themselves.
For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away. For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts, ever-learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith. But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was.
There is no such thing as pure pleasure; some anxiety always goes with it.
There is no such thing as pure pleasure; some anxiety always goes with it. There is love for none except him whom fortune favours. Do not be moved by women’s tears; they have taught there eyes to weep. If Jupiter should hurl his thunderbolts as often as men sin, he will soon be without arms.
My own idea, for what it is worth, is that all sadness which is not either arising from the repentance of a concrete sin and hastening towards concrete amendment or restitution, or else arising from pity and hastening to active assistance, is simply bad; and I think we all sin by needlessly disobeying the apostolic injunction to 'rejoice' as much as by anything else. Humility, after the first shock, is a cheerful virtue.
There's a very fine line between pleasure and pain. They are two sides of the same coin, one not existing without the other.
Nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure. It is for them alone to point out what we ought to do, as well as to determine what we shall do. On the one hand the standard of right and wrong, on the other the chain of causes and effects, are fastened to their throne. They govern us in all we do, in all we say, in all we think: every effort we can make to throw off our subjection, will serve but to demonstrate and confirm it. In words a man may pretend to abjure their empire: but in reality he will remain subject to it all the while. The principle of utility recognizes this subjection, and assumes it for the foundation of that system, the object of which is to rear the fabric of felicity by the hands of reason and of law. Systems which attempt to question it, deal in sounds instead of sense, in caprice instead of reason, in darkness instead of light.
But enough of metaphor and declamation: it is not by such means that moral science is to be improved.
Nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure. Pleasure is the first good. It is the beginning of every choice and every aversion. It is the absence of pain in the body and of troubles in the soul.
The summit of pleasure is the elimination of all that gives pain.
All sensations are true; pleasure is our natural goal.
My garden does not whet the appetite; it satisfies it. It does not provoke thirst through heedless indulgence, but slakes it by proffering its natural remedy. Amid such pleasures as these have I grown old.
No pleasure is evil in itself; but the means by which certain pleasures are gained bring pains many times greater than the pleasures.
I spit upon luxurious pleasures, not for their own sake, but because of the inconveniences that follow them.
It is impossible for someone to dispel his fears about the most important matters if he doesn't know the nature of the universe but still gives some credence to myths. So without the study of nature there is no enjoyment of pure pleasure.
When we say that pleasure is the end, we do not mean the pleasure of the profligate or that which depends on physical enjoyment--as some think who do not understand our teachings, disagree with them, or give them an evil interpretation—but by pleasure we mean the state wherein the body is free from pain and the mind from anxiety.
to man, then, there is nothing more useful than man. Man, I say, can wish for nothing more helpful to the preservation of his being than that all should so agree in all things that the Minds and Bodies of all would compose, as it were, one Mind and one Body; that all should strive together, as far as they can, to preserve their being; and that all, together, should seek for themselves the common advantage of all. 
The more you struggle to live, the less you live. Give up the notion that you must be sure of what you are doing. Instead, surrender to what is real within you, for that alone is sure....you are above everything distressing.
I do not know how to teach philosophy without becoming a disturber of the peace.
No matter how thin you slice it, there will always be two sides.
Everything excellent is as difficult as it is rare.
The more clearly you understand yourself and your emotions, the more you become a lover of what is.
I would warn you that I do not attribute to nature either beauty or deformity, order or confusion. Only in relation to our imagination can things be called beautiful or ugly, well-ordered or confused.
Since we began life as infants, and made various judgements concerning the things that can be perceived by the senses before we had the full use of our reason, there are many preconceived opinions that keep us from knowledge of the truth.
Thus extension in length, breadth, and depth constitutes the nature of corporeal substance.
There is no real difference between space, or internal place, and the corporeal substance contained in it. The only difference lies in the way in which we are accustomed to conceive of them.
Then motion is simply the transfer of one body from the vicinity of other bodies which are in immediate contact with it, and which are regarded as being at rest, to the vicinity of other bodies.
Up until now I have described the earth and indeed the whole visible universe as if it were a machine: I have considered only the various shapes and movements of its parts. But our senses show us much else besides, namely: colors, smells, sounds, and such-like.
We may lay it down that Pleasure is a movement, a movement by which the soul as a whole is consciously brought into its normal state of being; and that Pain is the opposite.
In educating the young we steer them by the rudders of pleasure and pain. 
Where perception is, there also are pain and pleasure, and where these are, there, of necessity, is desire.
We assume therefore that moral virtue is the quality of acting in the best way in relation to pleasures and pains, and that vice is the opposite.
The pleasure that comes of exercising a power that questions, monitors, watches, spies, searches out, palpates, brings to light; and on the other hand, the pleasure that kindles at having to evade this power, flee fro it, fool it, or travesty it. The power that lets itself be invaded by the pleasure it is pursuing; and opposite it, power asserting itself in the pleasure of showing off, scandalizing, or resisting.	
Therefore hear now this, thou that art given to pleasures, that dwellest carelessly, that sayest in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children. But these two things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood: they shall come upon thee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sorceries, and for the great abundance of thine enchantments. For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness: thou hast said, None seeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee; and thou hast said in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me.
We must embrace pain and burn it as fuel for our journey. She who loves roses must be patient and not cry out when she is pierced by thorns.
Pain and reward are complex constructs that encompass motivational, hedonic and learning signals. As the motivation to seek reward or avoid pain is generally correlated with the pleasantness or aversiveness of an event (respectively), it is difficult to disentangle the neuroanatomy of the hedonic and motivational components of pain and reward. In addition, we have only limited access to our own hedonic and motivational processes, which are thought to be primarily subconscious. Importantly, however, the motivation and hedonic subsystems seem to be mediated by different neurotransmitters. Carefully controlled studies have found specific effects for two neurotransmitter systems: dopamine increases motivation for, but not the pleasure of, eating palatable foods whereas the opioid system influences motivation indirectly by modulating subjective emotional feelings of pain and reward. In summary, opioids are necessary for hedonic experience (‘liking’) but dopamine motivates you to get ready for it (‘wanting’).
where are you hurrying to? You will never find that life for which you are looking. When the gods created man they allotted to him death, but life they retained in their own keeping. As for you, Gilgamesh, fill your belly with good things; day and night, night and day, dance and be merry, feast and rejoice. Let your clothes be fresh, bathe yourself in water, cherish the little child that holds your hand, and make your wife happy in your embrace; for this too is the lot of man.
Let thy desire flourish, in order to let thy heart forget the beatifications for thee. Follow thy desire, as long as thou shalt live. Put myrrh upon thy head and clothing of fine linen upon thee, being anointed with genuine marvels of the gods' property. Set an increase to thy good things; let not thy heart flag. Follow thy desire and thy good. Fulfill thy needs upon earth, after the command of thy heart, until there come for thee that day of mourning.
They refuse to turn pain and suffering into paths to knowledge and personal redemption. They propose pleasure, enjoyment, the common good, and gladly accepted contracts. They take control of their bodies and don’t hate them. They master their passions and impulses, desires and emotions, instead of brutally extirpating them. The pure pleasure of existing: a project that is always welcome.We should always have more pleasure than pain. In all hedonist ethics, suffering — the suffering that we undergo and that is inflicted on us — is the absolute evil. Consequently, absolute good corresponds to pleasure, defined as the absence of troubles, a serenity that’s acquired, conquered, and maintained, a tranquility of the soul and spirit. 
But this conceptual game can be complex. The mental tension that it entails may seem radically impractical since it requires a permanent concern for others. It seems like a perpetual ethical drama, an interminable moral theater; it seems like a titanic venture, something untenable — no more viable than the Judeo-Christian morality of holiness. 
There is a real pleasure to be had from acting ethically and practicing morality; it activates and rewards the hedonic fibers in our cerebral matter.
One of the staples of this machine that produces eunuchs, virgins, saints, mothers, and wives is to demean the feminine within the woman. She is the first victim of this antierotism and is held responsible for everything on this earth. In order to establish this logic of sexual inferiority, the West creates the myth of desire as lack. Pleasure is defined as the fantastic perfection of the spherical, complete animal. Desire-as-lack and pleasure that fills this lack are the cause of uneasiness and sexual wretchedness.  
Pleasure scares people. They are scared of the word and the actions, reality, and discourses around it. It either scares people or makes them hysterical. There are too many private and personal issues, too many alienating, intimate, painful, wretched, and miserable details. There are secret and hidden deficiencies. There are too many things in the way of just being, living, and enjoying.		
Pleasure and only pleasure is good. Now, consider the following thought experiment. Suppose there was an experience machine that would give you any experience you desired. Superduper neuropsychologists could stimulate your brain so that you would think and feel you were writing a great novel, or making a friend, or reading an interesting book. All the time you would be floating in a tank, with electrodes attached to your brain. Should you plug into this machine for life, preprogramming your life experiences? Of course, while in the tank you won't know that you're there; you'll think that it's all actually happening Would you plug in?
What else can matter to us, other than how our lives feel from the inside?
This appetite to choose death by pleasure if it is available to choose — this appetite of your people unable to choose appetites, this is the death.

It now lately seemed like a kind of black miracle to me, that people could actually care deeply about a subject or pursuit, and could go on caring this way for years on end. It seemed admirable and at the same time pathetic. We are all dying to give our lives away to something, maybe God or Satan, politics or grammar, topology or philately — the object seemed incidental to this will to give oneself away, utterly.

I am in here.
The individual’s right to pursue his own vision of the best ratio of pleasure to pain: utterly sacrosanct.
The neural distillate of, say, orgasm, religious enlightenment, ecstatic drugs, shiatsu, a crackling fire on a winter night — the sum of all possible pleasures refined into pure current and deliverable at the flip of a hand-held lever. Thousands of times an hour, at will.
Then in such a case your temple is self and sentiment. Then in such an instance you are a fanatic of desire, a slave to your individual subjective narrow self’s sentiments; a citizen of nothing. You become a citizen of nothing. You are by yourself and alone, kneeling to yourself. In a case such as this you become the slave who believes he is free. The most pathetic of bondage. Not tragic. No songs. You believe you would die twice for another but in truth would die only for your alone self, its sentiment.
Seminal. Seminal, seminal.
The center of nothing.
When he smoked marijuana he tended to masturbate a great deal.
Like most North Americans of his generation, Hal tends to know way less about why he feels certain ways about the objects and pursuits he’s devoted to than he does about the objects and pursuits themselves. It’s hard to say for sure whether this is even exceptionally bad, this tendency.
The text is a fetish object, and this fetish desires me. The text chooses me, by a whole disposition of invisible screens, selective baffles: vocabulary, references, readability, etc.; and, lost in the midst of a text (not behind it, like a deus ex machina) there is always the other, the author. As institution, the author is dead: his civil status, his biographical person have disappeared; dispossessed, they no longer exercise over his work the formidable paternity whose account literary history, teaching, and public opinion had the responsibility of establishing and renewing; but in the text, in a way, I desire the author: I need his figure (which is neither his representation nor his projection), as he needs mine (except to "prattle"). 
No sooner has a word been said, somewhere, about the pleasure of the text, than two policemen are ready to jump on you: the political policeman and the psychoanalytical policeman: futility and / or guilt, pleasure is either idle or vain, a class notion or an illusion. 
Pleasure is continually disappointed, reduced, deflated, in favor of strong, noble values: Truth, Death, Progress, Struggle, Joy, etc. Its victorious rival is Desire: we are always being told about Desire, never about Pleasure; Desire has an epistemic dignity, Pleasure does not. It seems that (our) society refuses (and ends up by ignoring) bliss to such a point that it can produce only epistemologies of the law (and of its contestation), never of its absence, or better still: of its nullity. Odd, this philosophical permanence of Desire (insofar as it is never satisfied): doesn't the word itself denote a "class notion"? (A rather crude presumption of proof, and yet noteworthy: the "populace" does not know Desire-only pleasures.) 
For the writer, however, this object exists: it is not the language, it is the mother tongue. The writer is someone who plays with his mother's body (I refer to Pleynet on Lautreamont and Matisse): in order to glorify it, to embellish it, or in order to dismember it, to take it to the limit of what can be known about the body: I would go so far as to take bliss in a disfiguration of the language, and opinion will strenuously object, since it opposes "disfiguring nature."
There’s a great deal that’s bad about having a body. If this is not so obviously true that no one needs examples, we can just quickly mention pain, sores, odors, nausea, aging, gravity, sepsis, clumsiness, illness, limits — every last schism between our physical wills and our actual capacities.
Post-human states of magical joy will be biologically refined, multiplied and intensified indefinitely. Notions of what now passes for tolerably good mental health are likely to be superseded. They will be written off as mood-congruent pathologies of the primordial Darwinian psyche. Such ugly thoughts and feelings will be diagnosed as typical of the tragic lives of emotional primitives from the previous era. 
The abolitionist project is hugely ambitious but technically feasible. It is also instrumentally rational and morally urgent. The metabolic pathways of pain and malaise evolved because they served the fitness of our genes in the ancestral environment. They will be replaced by a different sort of neural architecture — a motivational system based on heritable gradients of bliss. States of sublime well-being are destined to become the genetically pre-programmed norm of mental health. It is predicted that the world's last unpleasant experience will be a precisely dateable event.
Two hundred years ago, powerful synthetic pain-killers and surgical anesthetics were unknown. The notion that physical pain could be banished from most people's lives would have seemed absurd. Today most of us in the technically advanced nations take its routine absence for granted. The prospect that what we describe as psychological pain, too, could ever be banished is equally counter-intuitive. The feasibility of its abolition turns its deliberate retention into an issue of social policy and ethical choice.

The Hedonistic Imperative outlines how nanotechnology and genetic engineering will eliminate aversive experience from the living world. Over the next thousand years or so, the biological substrates of suffering will be eradicated completely. "Physical" and "mental" pain alike are destined to disappear into evolutionary history. The biochemistry of everyday discontents will be genetically phased out too. Malaise will be replaced by the biochemistry of bliss. Matter and energy will be sculpted into life-loving super-beings animated by gradients of well-being. The states of mind of our descendants are likely to be incomprehensibly diverse by comparison with today. Yet all will share at least one common feature: a sublime and all-pervasive happiness. This feeling of absolute well-being will surpass anything contemporary human neurochemistry can imagine, let alone sustain.
Pleasure (happiness, hedonic tone) is a measure of a creature’s subjective satisfaction with the current state of its consciousness regardless of the specific factors that have caused it: the measure of desirability of this state. Hedonic tone may be negative (suffering) or positive (pleasure per se).
Hedodynamics is a quantitative theory of individual behavior and societal development based on the pleasure principle.
Comfort is a hypothetical physiological parameter, unambiguously determining a creature’s volitional behavior according to Postulates, and being a neural correlate of pleasure according to Postulate.

the existence of comfort. Any volitional actions of a conscious organism are determined by a single physiological parameter (comfort), which may take negative and positive values. In its behavior, an organism either strives to maximize the current value of comfort, or only avoids negative current values of comfort (the particular option is to be determined by experiments).
the correlation between comfort and pleasure. Comfort is a neural correlate of pleasure. Negative values of comfort correspond to suffering and negative emotions, while positive values of comfort correspond to pleasure per se and positive emotions.
the universality of comfort. Comfort has a similar physiological nature in all possible conscious creatures. 
the correlation between comfort and utility. Intellect considers the maximization of utility as a dominating goal. There is a positive correlation between the predicted value of utility and the current value of comfort. This stimulates an animal to maximize utility.
Why should they necessarily be improvements? Animals do, as a matter of fact, learn to do what is good for them, rather than what is bad for them, but why? Animals tend to avoid actions that have, in the past, led to pain. But pain is not a substance. Pain is just what the brain treats as pain. It is a fortunate fact that those occurrences that are treated as painful, for instance violent puncturing of the body surface, also happen to be those occurrences that tend to endanger the animal's survival. But we could easily imagine a race of animals that enjoyed injury and other occurrences endangering their survival; a race of animals whose brain was so constructed that it took pleasure in injury and felt as painful those stimuli, such as the taste of nutritious food, which augur well for their survival. The reason we do not in fact see such masochistic animals in the world is the Darwinian reason that masochistic ancestors, for obvious reasons, would not have survived to leave descendants that inherited their masochism. We could probably, by artificial selection in padded cages, in pampered conditions where survival is assured by teams of vets and minders, breed a race of hereditary masochists. But in nature such masochists would not survive, and this is the fundamental reason why the changes that we call learning tend to be improvements rather than the reverse. 
The total amount of suffering per year in the natural world is beyond all decent contemplation. During the minute that it takes me to compose this sentence, thousands of animals are being eaten alive, many others are running for their lives, whimpering with fear, others are slowly being devoured from within by rasping parasites, thousands of all kinds are dying of starvation, thirst, and disease. It must be so. If there ever is a time of plenty, this very fact will automatically lead to an increase in the population until the natural state of starvation and misery is restored. In a universe of electrons and selfish genes, blind physical forces and genetic replication, some people are going to get hurt, other people are going to get lucky, and you won't find any rhyme or reason in it, nor any justice. The universe that we observe has precisely the properties we should expect if there is, at bottom, no design, no purpose, no evil, no good, nothing but pitiless indifference.
Regions that are particularly well situated to mediate interactions between pain and pleasure include the NAc, the pallidum and the amygdala. These regions receive direct or indirect reward-related signals from dopamine neurons in the midbrain and are thought to signal either reward-prediction error (discrepancy between the expected and the received reward; NAc and amygdala) or hedonic reward value (pallidum and amygdala). The NAc and pallidum each contain a ‘hedonic hotspot’ in which µ-opioid stimulation increases the liking of rewards.	
I will give you a year's time to win me, to convince me that we are suited to each other, that we might live together. If you succeed, I will become your wife, and a wife, Severin, who will conscientiously and strictly perform all her duties. During this year we will live as though we were married—My blood rose to my head. In her eyes too there was a sudden flame—We will live together, share our daily life, so that we may find out whether we are really fitted for each other. I grant you all the rights of a husband, of a lover, of a friend. Are you satisfied?
She has drawn up a contract according to which I give my word of honor and agree under oath to be her slave, as long as she wishes. With her arm around my neck she reads this, unprecedented, incredible document to me. The end of each sentence she punctuates with a kiss.
No. I have thought things over. What special value would there be in owning a slave where everyone owns slaves. What I want is to have a slave, I alone, here in our civilized sober, Philistine world, and a slave who submits helplessly to my power solely on account of my beauty and personality, not because of law, of property rights, or compulsions. This attracts me.
It seems she has completely forgotten the contract, my slavehood. Or was it actually only stubbornness? And she gave up her whole plan as soon as I no longer opposed her and submitted to her imperial whim?
I placed the furs about her, and Wanda slipped her right arm into the sleeve. This is the pose in Titian's picture. But now enough of joking. Don't always look so solemn, it makes me feel sad. As far as the world is concerned you are still merely my servant; you are not yet my slave, for you have not yet signed the contract. You are still free, and can leave me any moment. You have played your part magnificently. I have been delighted, but aren't you tired of it already, and don't you think I am abominable? Well, say something—I command it.
She said I alone should listen to them. But you must tie me down with cruel bonds, so I stay where I am and cannot move, standing upright at the mast. You must fix the rope at both its ends onto the mast. If I start ordering you to set me free, you have to tie me down with still more rope.
They tied me hand and foot onto the ship, so I stood upright hard against the mast. They lashed the rope ends to the mast as well, then sat and struck the gray sea with their oars.
But when we were about as far away as a man can shout, moving forward quickly, our swift ship did not get past the Sirens, once it came in close, without being noticed. 
They paused. The voice that reached me was so fine my heart longed to listen. I told my crew to set me free, sent them clear signals with my eyebrows. No man has ever rowed in his black ship past this island and not listened to us, sweet-voiced melodies sung from our lips. That brings him joy. Bound me with more rope and lashed me even tighter.
It felt like I had a mouthful of hornets stinging me all at one time. Candidly, it was like pure hell. The pain subsided pretty quickly and then it was just the high of the adrenaline and euphoria from the peppers.
The facial expressions during orgasm are often indistinguishable from those in pain.
It is surprising how often people who seek analytic treatment for hysteria or an obsessional neurosis confess to having indulged in the phantasy: ‘A child is being beaten.’ Very probably there are still more frequent instances of it among the far greater number of people who have not been obliged to come to analysis by manifest illness.
The phantasy has feelings of pleasure attached to it, and on their account the patient has reproduced it on innumerable occasions in the past or may even still be doing so. At the climax of the imaginary situation there is almost invariably a masturbatory satisfaction - carried out, that is to say, on the genitals. At first this takes place voluntarily, but later on it does so in spite of the
patient’s efforts, and with the characteristics of an obsession.
It is only with hesitation that this phantasy is confessed to. Its first appearance is recollected with uncertainty. The analytic treatment of the topic is met by unmistakable resistance. Shame and a sense of guilt are perhaps more strongly excited in this connection than when similar accounts are given of memories of the beginning of sexual life. Eventually it becomes possible to establish that the first phantasies of the kind were entertained very early in life: certainly before school age, and not later than in the fifth or sixth year. When the child was at school and saw other children being beaten by the teacher, then, if the phantasies had become dormant, this experience called them up again, or, if they were still present, it reinforced them and noticeably modified their content. From that time forward it was ‘an indefinite number’ of children that were being beaten. The influence of the school was so clear that the patients concerned were at first tempted to trace back their beating-phantasies exclusively to these impressions of school life, which dated from later than their sixth year. But it was never possible for them to maintain that position; the phantasies had already been in existence before.
The anxiety that is part of the affect of A Child Is Being Beaten, combining with its erotic pleasure, arises precisely from the force of rupture that is recurrent in the rhythm of the figure, a rupture that is not experienced as the onset of yet another contact but as an absolute break, that discontinuity without end that is death. Thus it is the death drive, operating below the pleasure principle, Lyotard sees, that transcodes this rhythm—as it beats with the alternation between pleasure and extinction—into a compulsion to repeat. The matrix is the form that figures recurrence.
The beating of the zootrope, cranking up to speed, the beating of the gull’s wings within the imaginary space, the beating of all those mechanical devices through which the real appears to burst into life from the shards of the inorganic and deathly still, and the particular form of the pleasure.