
I don’t love you as if you were a rose of salt, topaz, or arrow of carnations that propagate fire: I love you as one loves certain obscure things, secretly, between the shadow and the soul.
I love you as the plant that doesn’t bloom but carries the light of those flowers, hidden, within itself, and thanks to your love the tight aroma that arose from the earth lives dimly in my body.
I love you without knowing how, or when, or from where, I love you directly without problems or pride: I love you like this because I don’t know any other way to love, except in this form in which I am not nor are you, so close that your hand upon my chest is mine, so close that your eyes close with my dreams.
And because love battles not only in its burning agricultures but also in the mouth of men and women, I will finish off by taking the path away to those who between my chest and your fragrance want to interpose their obscure plant.
About me, nothing worse they will tell you, my love, than what I told you.
I lived in the prairies before I got to know you and I did not wait love but I was laying in wait for and I jumped on the rose.
What more can they tell you? I am neither good nor bad but a man, and they will then associate the danger of my life, which you know and which with your passion you shared. And good, this danger is danger of love, of complete love for all life, for all lives, and if this love brings us the death and the prisons, I am sure that your big eyes, as when I kiss them, will then close with pride, into double pride, love, with your pride and my pride.
But to my ears they will come before to wear down the tour of the sweet and hard love which binds us, and they will say: “The one you love, is not a woman for you, Why do you love her? I think you could find one more beautiful, more serious, more deep, more other, you understand me, look how she’s light, and what a head she has, and look at how she dresses, and etcetera and etcetera”.  And I in these lines say: like this I want you, love, love, like this I love you, as you dress and how your hair lifts up and how your mouth smiles, light as the water of the spring upon the pure stones, like this I love you, beloved.
To bread I do not ask to teach me but only not to lack during every day of life. I don’t know anything about light, from where it comes nor where it goes, I only want the light to light up, I do not ask to the night explanations, I wait for it and it envelops me, and so you, bread and light and shadow are.
You came to my life with what you were bringing, made of light and bread and shadow I expected you, and like this I need you, like this I love you, and to those who want to hear tomorrow that which I will not tell them, let them read it here, and let them back off today because it is early for these arguments. 
Tomorrow we will only give them a leaf of the tree of our love, a leaf which will fall on the earth like if it had been made by our lips like a kiss which falls from our invincible heights to show the fire and the tenderness of a true love.
Don't go far off, not even for a day, because -- because -- I don't know how to say it: a day is long  and I will be waiting for you, as in an empty station when the trains are parked off somewhere else, asleep. Don't leave me, even for an hour, because then the little drops of anguish will all run together, the smoke that roams looking for a home will drift into me, choking my lost heart. 
Oh, may your silhouette never dissolve on the beach; may your eyelids never flutter into the empty distance. Don't leave me for a second, my dearest, because in that moment you'll have gone so far I'll wander mazily over all the earth, asking, Will you come back? Will you leave me here, dying? 
I want you to know one thing. You know how this is:  if I look at the crystal moon, at the red branch of the slow autumn at my window,  if I touch near the fire the impalpable ash or the wrinkled body of the log, everything carries me to you, as if everything that exists, aromas, light, metals, were little boats that sail toward those isles of yours that wait for me. 
Well, now, if little by little you stop loving me I shall stop loving you little by little. If suddenly you forget me do not look for me, for I shall already have forgotten you. 
If you think it long and mad, the wind of banners that passes through my life, and you decide to leave me at the shore of the heart where I have roots, remember that on that day, at that hour, I shall lift my arms and my roots will set off to seek another land. But if each day, each hour, you feel that you are destined for me with implacable sweetness, if each day a flower climbs up to your lips to seek me, ah my love, ah my own, in me all that fire is repeated, in me nothing is extinguished or forgotten, my love feeds on your love, beloved, and as long as you live it will be in your arms without leaving mine.
I crave your mouth, your voice, your hair. Silent and starving, I prowl through the streets. Bread does not nourish me, dawn disrupts me, all day I hunt for the liquid measure of your steps.
I hunger for your sleek laugh, your hands the color of a savage harvest, hunger for the pale stones of your fingernails, I want to eat your skin like a whole almond.
I want to eat the sunbeam flaring in your lovely body, the sovereign nose of your arrogant face, I want to eat the fleeting shade of your lashes, and I pace around hungry, sniffing the twilight, hunting for you, for your hot heart, like a puma in the barrens of Quitratue.
Now, now too, little one, you bring me honeysuckle, and even your breasts smell of it. While the sad wind goes slaughtering butterflies I love you, and my happiness bites the plum of your mouth.
You are the daughter of the sea, oregano's first cousin. Swimmer, your body is pure as the water; cook, your blood is quick as the soil. Everything you do is full of flowers, rich with the earth. 
Your eyes go out toward the water, and the waves rise; your hands go out to the earth and the seeds swell; you know the deep essence of water and the earth, conjoined in you like a formula for clay.
I like for you to be still It is as though you are absent and you hear me from far away and my voice does not touch you It seems as though your eyes had flown away and it seems that a kiss had sealed your mouth as all things are filled with my soul you emerge from the things filled with my soul you are like my soul a butterfly of dream and you are like the word: Melancholy.
I like for you to be still and you seem far away It sounds as though you are lamenting a butterfly cooing like a dove and you hear me from far away and my voice does not reach you let me come to be still in your silence and let me talk to you with your silence that is bright as a lamp simple, as a ring you are like the night with its stillness and constellations your silence is that of a star as remote and candid I like for you to be still it is as though you are absent distant and full of sorrow so you would've died one word then, one smile is enough and I'm happy; happy that it's not true.
Body of a woman, white hills, white thighs, you look like a world, lying in surrender. My rough peasant's body digs in you and makes the son leap from the depth of the earth.
I was lone like a tunnel. The birds fled from me, and nigh swamped me with its crushing invasion. To survive myself I forged you like a weapon, like an arrow in my bow, a stone in my sling.
But the hour of vengeance falls, and I love you. Body of skin, of moss, of eager and firm milk. Oh the goblets of the breast! Oh the eyes of absence! Oh the roses of the pubis! Oh your voice, slow and sad!
Body of my woman, I will persist in your grace. My thirst, my boundless desire, my shifting road! Dark river-beds where the eternal thirst flows and weariness follows, and the infinite ache.
Drunk as drunk on turpentine from your open kisses, Your wet body wedged between my wet body and the strake of our boat that is made of flowers, feasted, we guide it - our fingers like tallows adorned with yellow metal - over the sky's hot rim, the day's last breath in our sails.
Pinned by the sun between solstice and equinox, drowsy and tangled together we drifted for months and woke with the bitter taste of land on our lips, eyelids all sticky, and we longed for lime and the sound of a rope lowering a bucket down its well. Then, we came by night to the Fortunate Isles, and lay like fish under the net of our kisses.
Rolling in solitary drops, in gouts like teeth, in thick gobs of marmalade and blood, rolling in drops, the water pours down, in gouts like a blade, a lacerating river of glass, it pours down, gnawing, hammering the axle of symmetry, soldering the soul’s brazings, smashing abandoned objects, drenching what is dark. 
It is merely a gasp, damper than weeping, a liquid, a sweat, an oil without a name, a motion of stabbing, shaping, thickening, the water pours down in sluggish drops to its sea, its juiceless ocean, to its wave without water. And even if I clap my eyes shut and dam my heart, thoroughly, I see a soft water wash down, in soft drops. 
I see a summer stretched out, and a death-rattle growing from a barn, wine-cellars, locusts, crowds of people, palpitations, homes, little girls sleeping with hands on their hearts, dreaming of bandits, burnings, I see boats, I see trees of spinal cords, hackling like angry cats, I see blood, daggers and women’s stockings, and men’s hair, I see bedsteads, I see corridors where a virgin cries out, I see blankets and pipe-organs and hotels. 
I see private dreams, I let in the lagging days, and the beginnings, too, and the memories, too; like an eyelid horribly pried up, I stand watching. And further, there is this sound: a red uproar of bones, a cleaving together of flesh, and legs, yellow as spikes of corn, splicing. I listen between the cracking of kisses, I listen, flailed between paintings and wailings. I stand, watching, hearing, with half of my soul on the sea and with half of my soul on the earth, and with the two halves of my soul I watch the world.
It is like a hurricane of gelatin, a cascade of sperms and jellyfish. I see a clotted rainbow, flowing. I see its waters moving across my bones.