The propagation of the human race is not left to mere accident or the caprices of the individual, but is guaranteed by the hidden laws of nature which are enforced by a mighty, irresistible impulse. Sensual enjoyment and physical fitness are not the only conditions for the enforcement of these laws, but higher motives and aims, such as the desire to continue the species or the individuality of mental and physical qualities beyond time and space, exert a considerable influence. Man puts himself at once on a level with the beast if he seeks to gratify lust alone, but he elevates his superior position when by curbing the animal desire he combines with the sexual functions ideas of morality, of the sublime, and the beautiful. 
Placed upon this lofty pedestal he stands far above nature and draws from inexhaustible sources material for nobler enjoyments, for serious work and for the realisation of ideal aims. Maudsley justly claims that sexual feeling is the basis upon which social advancement is developed. 
If man were deprived of sexual distinction and the nobler enjoyments arising therefrom, all poetry and probably all moral tendency would be eliminated from his life. 
Sexual life no doubt is the one mighty factor in the individual and social relations of man which disclose his powers of activity, of acquiring property, of establishing a home, of awakening altruistic sentiments towards a person of the opposite sex, and towards his own issue as well as towards the whole human race.
Sexual feeling is really the root of all ethics, and no doubt of Aestheticism and religion. 
The sublimest virtues, even the sacrifice of self, may spring from sexual life, which, however, on account of its sensual power, may easily degenerate into the lowest passion and basest vice. 
Love unbridled is a volcano that bums down and lays waste all around it; it is an abyss that devours all honour, substance and health. 
It is of great psychological interest to follow up the gradual development of civilisation and the influence exerted by sexual life upon habits and morality. The gratification of the sexual instinct seems to be the primary motive in man as well as in beast. Sexual intercourse is done openly, and man and woman are not ashamed of their nakedness. Woman is a "chattel," an article of commerce, exchange or gift, a vessel for sensual gratification, an implement for toil. The presence of shame in the manifestations and exercise of the sexual functions, and of modesty in the mutual relations between the sexes are the foundations of morality. Thence arises the desire to cover the nakedness ("and they saw that they were naked") and to perform the act in private. 
Another element which tends to promote the refined development of sexual life is the fact that woman ceases to be a "chattel". She becomes an individual being, and, although socially still far below man, she gradually acquires rights, independence of action, and the privilege to bestow her favours where she inclines. She is wooed by man. Traces of ethical sentiments pervade the rude sensual appetite, idealisation begins and community of woman ceases. The sexes are drawn to each other by mental and physical merits and exchange favours of preference. In this stage woman is conscious of the fact that her charms belong only to the man of her choice. She seeks to hide them from others. This forms the foundation of modesty, chastity and sexual fidelity so long as love endures. 
Love causes more pain than pleasure. Pleasure is only an illusion. Reason would demand the avoidance of love were it not for that fatal sexual instinct. Hence it would be better to be castrated.
Life is a never-ceasing duel between the animal instinct and morality. Only will-power and a strong character can emancipate man from the meanness of his corrupt nature, and teach him how to enjoy the pure pleasures of love and pluck the noble fruits of earthly existence. 
It is an open question whether the moral status of mankind has undergone an improvement in our times. No doubt society at large shows a greater veneer of modesty and virtue, and vice is not as flagrantly practised as of yore. 
The primary element of sexual preference is love, i,e., the expectation of unsurpassed pleasure. The secondary element is the feeling of dependence, although it is in reality the root from which spring alike, as the former may be entirely absent. It certainly exists in a stronger measure in woman, on account of her social position, and the passive part which she takes in the act of procreation; but at times it is also found in men who are of a feminine type. 
Religion as well as sexual love is mystical and transcendental. In sexual love the real object of the instinct, i,e,, propagation of the species, is not always present to the mind during the act, and the impulse is much stronger than could be justified by the gratification that can possibly be derived from it. Religious love strives for the possession of an object that is absolutely ideal, and cannot be defined by experimental knowledge. Both are metaphysical processes which give unlimited scope to imagination. 
They converge, however, in a similar indefinite focus; for the gratification of the sensual appetite promises a boon which far surpasses all other conceivable pleasures, and faith has in store a bliss that endures for ever. 
In either condition the mind is conscious of the enormous importance of the object to be obtained; thus impulses often become irresistible and overcome all opposing motives. But because neither of them can at times grasp the real object of their existence they easily degenerate into fanaticism in which intensity of emotion overbalances clearness and stability of reason. Expectation of unfathomed bliss is now coupled with reckless resignation and unconditional submission. 
Owing to this conformity it happens that under high tension one dislodges the other, or that both make their appearance together; for every violent upheaval in the soul must necessarily sweep along its surroundings. 
Nature, always the same, draws alike upon these two spheres of conception, now forcing one then the other into stronger activity, which degenerates even into acts of cruelty either actively exercised, or passively endured. 
In religious life this may assume the shape of self-sacrifice or self-destruction, prompted by the idea that the victim is necessary for the material sustenance of the deity. The sacrifice is brought as a sign of reverence or submission, as a tribute, as an atonement for sins committed, or as a price wherewith to purchase happiness. 
If, however, the offering consists in self-punishment and that occurs in all religions it serves not only as a symbol of submission, or an equivalent in the exchange of present pain for future bliss, but everything that is thought to come from the deity, all that is done in obedience to divine mandates or to the honour of the Godhead, is felt directly as pleasure. Thus religious exuberance leads to ecstasy, a condition in which consciousness is so preoccupied with feelings of mental pleasure, that distress is stripped of its painful quality. 
Exaggerated religious enthusiasm also finds pleasure in the sacrifice of another person, when rapture combines with sympathy. 
Similar manifestations may be observed in sexual life, as will be shown later on under the headings of Sadism and Masochism. 
Thus the relations existing between religion, lust, and cruelty, may be condensed into the formula: Religious and sexual hypersesthesia at the acme of development show the same volume of intensity and the same quality of excitement, and may therefore under given circumstances interchange. Both will in certain pathological states degenerate into cruelty. 
Sexual influence is just as potent in the awakening of aesthetic sentiments. What other foundation is there for the plastic art or poetry? From (sensual) love arises that warmth of fancy which alone can inspire the creative mind, and the fire of sensual feeling kindles and preserves the glow and fervour of art. 
This explains the sensual natures of great poets and artists. 
The world of fancy keeps pace with the development of sexual power. Whoever during that period cannot be animated by the ideals of all that is great, noble and beautiful remains a "Philistine" all his life. Even the dolt tries his hand at poetry when in love. 
On the borders of physiological reaction may be observed those mysterious processes of maturing puberty, which give origin to obscure yearnings and moods of despondency and Weltschmerz, rendering life tedious, and coupled with the impulse to inflict pain and sorrow upon others (weak analogies of a psychological connection between lust and cruelty). 
The individual valuation of the fetich extending even to unreasoning enthusiasm is called fetichism. This interesting psychological phenomenon may be explained by an empirical law of association, i.e., the relation existing between the notion itself and the parts thereof which are essentially active in the production of pleasurable emotions. It is most commonly found in religious and erotic spheres. Religious fetichism finds its original motive in the delusion that its object, i.e., the idol, is not a mere symbol, but possesses divine attributes, and ascribes to it peculiar wonder-working (relics) or protective (amulets) virtues. 
Erotic fetichism makes an idol of physical or mental qualities of a person or even merely of objects used by that person, etc., because they awaken mighty associations with the beloved person, thus originating strong emotions of sexual pleasure. Analogies with religious fetichism are always discernible; for, in the latter, the most insignificant objects (hair, nails, bones, etc.) become at times fetiches which produce feelings of delight and even ecstasy. 
The germ of sexual love is probably to be found in the individual charm (fetich) with which persons of opposite sex sway each other. 
