
(Pleasure/Bliss: terminologically, there is always a vacillation — I stumble, I err. In any case, there will always be a margin of indecision; the distinction will not be the source of absolute classifications, the paradigm will falter the meaning will be precarious, revocable, reversible: the discourse incomplete.)
If I read this sentence, this story, or this word with pleasure, it is because they were written in pleasure (such pleasure does not contradict the writer's complaints), But the opposite? Does writing in pleasure guarantee — guarantee me, the writer — my reader's pleasure? Not at all. I must seek out this reader (must "cruise" him) without knowing where he is. A site of bliss is then created. It is not the reader's "person" that is necessary to me, it is this site: the possibility of a dialectics of desire, of an unpredictabilIty of bliss: the bets are not placed, there can still be a game.
I am offered a text. This text bores me. It might be said to prattle. The prattle of the text is merely that foam of language which forms by the effect of a simple need, of writing. Here we are not dealing with perversion but with demand. The writer of this text employs an unweaned language: imperative, automatic, unaffectionate, a minor disaster of static: these are the motions of ungratified sucking of an undifferentiated orality, intersecting the orality which produces the pleasures of gastrosophy and of language. It can be said that after all, you have written this text quite apart from bliss; and this prattling text is then a frigid text, as any demand is frigid until desire, until neurosis forms in it.
Two edges are created: an obedient, conformist, plagiarizing edge (the language is to be copied in its canonical state, as it has been established by schooling, good usage, literature, culture), and another edge, mobile, blank (ready to assume any contours), which is never anything but the site of its effect: the place where the death of language is glimpsed. These two edges, the compromise they bring about, are necessary. Neither culture nor its destruction is erotic; it is the seam between them, the fault, the flaw, which becomes so. The pleasure of the text is like that untenable, impossible, purely novelistic instant so relished by Sade’s libertine when he manages to be hanged and then to cut the rope at the very moment of his orgasm, his bliss.
By which it must be understood that they always have two edges. The subversive edge may seem privileged because it is the edge of violence; but it is not violence which affects pleasure, nor is it destruction which interests it; What pleasure wants is the site of a loss, the seam, the cut, the deflation, the dissolve which seizes the subject in the midst of bliss. Culture thus recurs as an edge: in no matter what form.
Is not the most erotic portion of a body where the garment gapes? In perversion (which is the realm of textual pleasure) there are no "erogenous zones" (a foolish expression, besides); it is intermittence, as psychoanalysis has so rightly stated, which is erotic: the intermittence of skin flashing between two articles of clothing (trousers and sweater), between two edges (the open-necked shirt, the glove and the sleeve); it is this flash itself which seduces, or rather: the staging of an appearance-as-disapearance.
The pleasure of the text is not the pleasure of the corporeal striptease or of narrative suspense. 
The text is a fetish object, and this fetish desires me.The text chooses me, by a whole disposition of invisible screens, selective baffles: vocabulary, references, readability, etc.; and, lost in the midst of a text (not behind it, like a deus ex machina) there is always the other, the author. As institution, the author is dead: his civil status, his biographical person have disappeared; dispossessed, they no longer exercise over his work the formidable paternity whose account literary history, teaching, and public opinion had the responsibility of establishing and renewing; but in the text, in a way, I desire the author: I need his figure (which is neither his representation nor his projection), as he needs mine (except to "prattle"). 
No sooner has a word been said, somewhere, about the pleasure of the text, than two policemen are ready to jump on you: the political policeman and the psychoanalytical policeman: futility and / or guilt, pleasure is either idle or vain, a class notion or an illusion. 
Pleasure is continually disappointed, reduced, deflated, in favor of strong, noble values: Truth, Death, Progress, Struggle, Joy, etc. Its victorious rival is Desire: we are always being told about Desire, never about Pleasure; Desire has an epistemic dignity, Pleasure does not. 
For the writer, however, this object exists: it is not the language, it is the mother tongue. The writer is someone who plays with his mother's body: in order to glorify it, to embellish it, or in order to dismember it, to take it to the limit of what can be known about the body: I would go so far as to take bliss in a disfiguration of the language, and opinion will strenuously object, since it opposes "disfiguring nature."
From Sade to Fourier, sadism is lost; from Loyola to Sade, divine interlocution. Otherwise, the same writing: the same sensual pleasure in classification, the same mania for cutting up ( the body of Christ, the body of the victim, the human soul), the same enumerative obsession ( accounting for sins, tortures, passions, and even for accounting errors), the same image practice ( imitation, tableau, seance), the same erotic, fantasmatic fashioning of the social system. None of these three authors is bearable; each makes pleasure, happiness, communication dependent on an inflexible order or, to be even more offensive, a combinative.
The language they found is obviously not linguistic, a language of communication. It is a new language, traversed by (or traversing) natural language, but open only to the semiological definition of Text. 
The third operation is ordering: not merely to arrange the elementary signs, but to subject the vast erotic, eudaemonist, or mystical sequence to a higher order, no longer syntactical, but metrical; the new discourse is provided with an Ordainer, a Master of Ceremonies, a Rhetorician; there is always someone to regulate (but not: regiment) the exercise, seance, orgy, but that someone is not a subject; the producer of the episode, he acts only for the moment, he is merely a rective morpheme, an operator of the sequence. Thus the ritual demanded by our three authors is only a form of planning: it is the order necessary for pleasure, happiness, divine interlocution (just as any form of text is always only the ritual that orders pleasure); but this economy is not appropriative, it remains "excessive," it says only that unconditioned loss is not uncontrolled loss: loss must be ordered in order to become unconditional: the ultimate vacation, the denial of any reciprocal economy, is itself obtained only by means of an economy: Sadian ecstasy, Fourierist jubilation, lgnatian indifference, never exceed the language that constitutes them: isn't a materialist rite that one beyond which there is nothing?
Nothing is more depressing than to imagine the Text as an intellectual object (for reflection, analysis, comparison, mirroring , etc.). The text is an object of pleasure. The bliss of the text is often only stylistic: there are expressive felicities, and neither Sade nor Fourier lacks them. However, at times the pleasure of the Text is achieved more deeply (and then is when we can truly say there is a Text): whenever the "literary" Text (the Book) transmigrates into our life, whenever another writing ( the Other 's writing) succeeds in writing fragments of our own daily lives, in short whenever a coexistence occurs.
Thus the Sadian enclosure is relentless; it has a dual function; first, of course, to isolate, to shelter vice from the world's punitive attempts; yet libertine solitude is not merely a precaution of a practical nature; it is a quality of existence, a sensual pleasure of being; e.g., it has a functionally useless but philosophically exemplary form: within the best-tested retreats, there always exists, in Sadian space, a "solitary" where the libertine takes some of his victims, far away from all, even friendly, eyes, where he is irrevocably alone with his object-a highly unusual thing in this communal society; this "solitary" is obviously formal, since what happens there, being on the order of torture or crime, very explicit practices in the Sadian world, has no reason to be hidden ; excepting the religious "solitary" of Saint-Fond, the Sadian solitary is merely the theatrical form of solitude : for a time, it desocializes crime; in a world deeply penetrated by speech, it achieves a rare paradox : that of a silent act; and since in Sade there is never anything real save for the narration, the silence of "solitary" is completely confounded with the blank of the narrative: the meaning stops.
Money proves vice and supports bliss: not because it procure s pleasures (for Sade, what "gives pleasure" is never there "for pleasure"), but because it guarantees the spectacle of poverty; Sadian society is not cynical, it is cruel; it does not say: there must be poor in order that there be rich; it says the opposite: there must be rich in order that there be poor; wealth is necessary because it contrasts with misfortune.
In no case may the erotic order be bypassed: " 'One moment,' La Delbene said, all flushed, 'one second, my fine friends, let's put a little order into our pleasures, we can only enjoy them by fixing them'"; whence a highly comical ambiguity between the libertine admonition and the professorial apostrophe, the harem being always a miniature classroom.
In fact, and this is the time to say it, aside from murder there is but one trait the libertines themselves possess and never share, in any form whatever: speech. The master is he who speaks, who disposes of the entirety of language; the object is he who is silent, who remains separate, by a mutilation more absolute than any erotic torture, from any access to discourse, because he does not even have any right to receive the master's word.