Thus he thinks about Beyond the Pleasure Principle and the two different pulses that Freud weaves together there. One is the hum of charge and discharge as the pleasure principle operates toward the release of tension and the maintenance of the lowest levels of excitation. This rhythm, which is the on/off throb of + - + - + -, or of the presence and absence of contact, can be seen as the metrical “figure” of to beat: its form. But the second pulse is not a principle of recurrence guaranteeing that an “on” will always follow an “off”; it maps the principle, instead, of interruption. It is a pulse that is rather to be figures as + 0, which is to say existence followed by total extinction. It is thus a “beat” that does not promise the return of the same, but simply re-turn, the coming of nothing. This second pulse is not a good form, not a good gestalt. Rather, he thinks, “it is a form in which desire remains caught, form caught by transgression; but it is also the, at least potential, transgression of form.” The anxiety that is part of the affect of A Child Is Being Beaten, combining with its erotic pleasure, arises precisely from the force of rupture that is recurrent in the rhythm of the figure, a rupture that is not experienced as the onset of yet another contact but as an absolute break, that discontinuity without end that is death. Thus it is the death drive, operating below the pleasure principle, Lyotard sees, that transcodes this rhythm—as it beats with the alternation between pleasure and extinction—into a compulsion to repeat. The matrix is the form that figures recurrence.
The beating of the zootrope, cranking up to speed, the beating of the gull’s wings within the imaginary space, the beating of all those mechanical devices through which the real appears to burst into life from the shards of the inorganic and deathly still, and the particular form of the pleasure connected to that rhythm, all this became a resource for an artistic practice disinclined to obey the modernist law of the immobility of painting. Focused simultaneously on the unconscious ground of that pleasure and on its media form, which is to say its relation to mechanical reproduction, the artists of the “optical unconscious” were concerned with the vehicles of mass culture. It seemed to them that what was confirmed there was an order in which the neat separation of the senses—space logically segmented off from time—had been dissolved, deconstructed. That the beat summoned by these devices could not be understood as structurally distinct from “vision” but as operating from within it. They welcomed this beat, then, as a force that could transgress those very notions of “distinctness” on which modernism relies. 
And, inevitably, her dream will be pulsatile. The surge of the wings beating up and down from within the illusion will visually rhyme with the flickering staccato of the zootrope’s motion, a rhythm connecting the interior image with the exterior “form.” This is the rhythm that will simultaneously construct the gestalt and threaten it with dissolution, with a breakup into its separate, impotent fragments. And this is the rhythm, he knew as well, that will allow the erotic currents of the dream to surface.
The two poles of this axis are, however, distinct. On the one hand, the pole of the not-ground will be the place of this seeing, the place where the empirical viewer is entered into the schema, marked by the way the empty mirror of the pictorial surface is set up as an analogue to the retinal surface of the eye opened onto its world. On the other, the not-figure is the totalizing viewpoint of “knowing that . . .’’. It marks the place of the Viewer as a kind of impersonal absolute, the point at which vision is entered into the schema both as a repertory of laws and as a relationship to those laws which is that of the transcendental ego. The not/not of the lower axis is not, then, a cancelation of figures and grounds but a sublation of them. Not an informe but an accounting for form.
And in the inscription with which Ernst frames this space, the froth of pleasure is invoked by the words “la grace tenue de nos pleiades”: as the idea of the Milky Way summons up the old iconography of the body’s secretions writing themselves over the page of the heavens.
The ball, you see, pushed things farther than that. The verticality of the fingers with the ball at their tips rephallicized the image, causing a meaning to rise upward, to flood back over the lineaments of the baffling genital secret; in it he could see the woman’s body beckoning with all the pleasure and terror of the dawning excitement of the experience of sexual difference. And this made the hand, in its verticality, in its sense of weightless suspension, in its Oedipal overtones, another avatar of La puberte proche.
They are women falling, falling from the vertical into the horizontal. How is it that with that simple implication of falling, ecstasy is produced as image?
Mouth/anus. A straight line. The formal relations of the alimentary drive. Which every other animal knows how to read. By standing up, the human being has abandoned that simple, direct geometry and assumed, in his verticality, a more confusing form. For the top of his head, his “prow,” is an inertly nonsignifying element of his body. We have to descend the facial facade to the level of the eyes to arrive at the evocative element in the human architecture. And the eyes have driven the mouth into obscurity. Yet this architecture of the human will be transformed in moments of greatest pain or greatest pleasure. Then, the subject will grip his or her neck and, throwing the head fully back, will reassume that position in which it is the mouth that is at the end of the vertebral column. And from this newly projecting, newly expressive member there will issue the cry.
Rotating the head to produce the mouth as the human “prow” is not an elevation of the mouth but a lowering of the human structure, which has, by assuming the animal “geometry,” fallen into the horizontal. So many falling bodies. So many mouths brought uppermost.  Rotate the image of body and you produce a different geography. A geography that undoes the form of the human form.
Or, and why not, there is the television set itself, this impassive eye that nonetheless exudes a constant visual beat since its image is produced by an electric current scanning upward along the hundreds of lines that cross the screen, generating an “image” through the continual renewal of its pulse, becoming all the more apparent when the set goes out of calibration and the whole image is wiped upward again and again as though pushed by an insistently reappearing black, horizontal bar. Why could it not be said that the screen’s flicker, witness to its almost imperceptible mechanical pulse, provides the matrix, the formal support or “ground” against which these pounding, kicking, scratching, gouging “figures” of pain can be bodied forth to provide their full component of pleasure?
For a utopian modernism was insisting that this sensory stratum newly understood as discrete, as self-sufficient, as autonomous—this very stratification—permitted an experience of rescue and retreat, a high ground uncontaminated by the instrumentality of the world of labor and of science, a preserve of play and thus a model of freedom. Perhaps the pleasure for both of us at that moment in the ’60s in the idea of a high-cultural ambition’s being allegorized through a baseball player was just this insistence on the seriousness of this very sense of play. But from the secularity of the baseball player to the metaphysics of grace is a leap indeed, a leap that performs the peculiar feat of folding all of utopian modernism into the arms of the writer of Sesame and Lilies, showing that the visual speed that produces the disincarnated look is not an athlete’s but an evangelical Christian’s, or God’s. It produced a shudder, like a lining ripping open so that the ideological seams showed through.
Suppose we were to try to graph this relation. We might start by characterizing the primal appearance of the object within the infant subject’s perceptual field as the advent of something that separates itself out from a hitherto undifferentiated ground to become distinct as figure. That object, which is the mother’s breast—and by extension the mother—becomes a figure, of course, by dint of its withdrawal from the contiguous field of the infant, by virtue of setting him up no longer as the amorphous and allinclusive subject of satisfaction but now as the subject of frustration and longing, the subject that is, of desire. The very moment that produces the visibility of the object brackets it, then, as an object submitted to the terms of absence. As such, this “figure" is conditioned by its own contradiction, which is that of not-figure. But the figure, as image, is also mirrored back to the infant perceiver, who understands it as the representation of not just any object but that object which is uniquely his, which was invented for his satisfaction and pleasure, which in being his marks him as a unique being, and in this character of “belonging to him" both points to him deictically—“this,” “here,” “you"—and reproduces itself deixically—one term mirroring another, implying another—as part of his own identity. As in the Klein Group’s diagonally opposing terms, as in the L Schema’s a = a', so here the “figure” of the image equals the “not-ground” of his self-differentiation as ego. Rewritten in this way, the appearance of the object as the psycho analytically construed function of separation begins to suggest a schema with which we are familiar.
It’s true, of course, that such comments raise the question of just what was on sale in this little booth, under the guise of optical pleasure. For the sexual promise of the illusions brings up the possibility that this “precision oculist” might have been pandering to the crowd. 