There is, admittedly, an attractive neatness to both the literary strategy of sympathy and the theory of aesthetic empathy or projection, by no means implausible or unuseful models of how feeling can make a work of art become an object of our concern by the production of immediacy. Yet there are clearly other ways in which feeling facilitates aesthetic engagement. Indeed, it is precisely the kind of affective reflexivity embodied in the dynamics of sympathy and empathy that Melville’s novel wants to disrupt, simply by demonstrating how its imaginary symmetry cannot in fact be sustained. As we have seen, the confidence-man’s strategy is to introduce a break in the relay, however fleeting or momentary, not by challenging its principle of reflexivity but by amplifying it. The novel’s emphasis on the ensuing dissonance should not be taken as a celebration of chaos, but rather as an effort to put forward a different model of affect’s role in our aesthetic encounters, and, indeed, one which it explicitly pits against the imaginary circuit of sympathy. It is this model that reveals the full extent of the confidence-man’s “operation” within the novel and the full force of tone’s dialectical character. For the subjective nature of the secondary feeling—panic, consternation, disconcertedness—produced once the confidence-man has forced his dupes to perceive the semblance character of the feeling which runs their world, suggests that the dupes have been made to care about the very fact of its unfeltness, that somehow the affect’s “escape” from subjective containment itself matters.
Though Sontag’s conjunction of “hyperactivity” with what “deadens” already hints otherwise, the excessive, if abrupt and fleeting excitation of shock, and the prolonged lack of excitement we associate with boredom, would seem to give rise to mutually exclusive aesthetics. The two affects have diametrically opposite “profiles of activation, maintenance, and decay.” Sudden in onset, brief in duration, and disappearing quickly, astonishment involves high levels and steep gradients of neural firing; whereas boredom, slow or gradual in onset and long in duration, involves low and continuous levels of neural firing. Yet even as the temporalities of shock and boredom are inarguably antithetical, both are responses that confront us with the limitations of our capacity for responding in general. As Bloch notes, in classic taxonomies of feeling both tend to be placed in the category of “asthenic” versus “sthenic” emotions, “i.e. those which paralyze rather than strengthen heart innervation.” Both “paralyzing” affects consequently inform aesthetic responses that tend to be written off as unsophisticated: from this point of view, only a philistine would be bored by the later Beckett’s fatiguing repetitions; only a naïf would be shocked by Jeff Koons’s pornographic sculptures. By pointing to what obstructs aesthetic or critical response, however, astonishment and boredom ask us to ask what ways of responding our culture makes available to us, and under what conditions. The shocking and the boring prompt us to look for new strategies of affective engagement and to extend the circumstances under which engagement becomes possible. Here we will explore the peculiar phenomenon of the intersection of these affects, in innovative artistic and literary production, as a way of expanding our concept of aesthetic experience in general.
Yet in that book, which presents a taxonomy or system for the making of human “kinds,” repeating is also the dynamic force by which new beginnings, histories, and genres are produced and organized. As Lacan similarly suggests, “repetition demands the new,” including new ways of understanding its dulling and irritating effects.21 It thus comes as no surprise that many of the most “shocking,” innovative, and transformative cultural productions in history have also been deliberately tedious ones. In the twentieth century, systematically recursive works by Andy Warhol, Robert Ryman, Jasper Johns, John Cage, and Philip Glass bear witness to the prominence of tedium as an aesthetic strategy in avant-garde practices; one also thinks of the “fatiguing repetitiveness of Sade’s books”22 and the permutative logics at work in the writings of Beckett, Raymond Roussel, Georges Perec, Alain Robbe-Grillet, Jackson Mac Low, and of course Stein. This strange partnership between enervation and shock in the invention of new genres is not limited to the avant-garde. It can likewise be found in the contemporary slasher film, which by continually using a limited number of trademark motifs replicates the serial logic of the serial killer (while also, of course, producing thrills), and in the pulsating, highly energized, yet exhaustively durational electronic music known as techno, which generated new musical subcultures in the 1980s. Though repetition, permutation, and seriality figure prominently as devices in aesthetic uses of tedium, practitioners have achieved the same effect through a strategy of agglutination—the mass adhesion or coagulation of data particles or signifying units. Here tedium resides not so much in the syntactic overdetermination of a minimalist lexicon, as in Robert Ryman’s white paintings, but in the stupendous proliferation of discrete quanta held together by a fairly simple syntax or organizing principle. This logic, less mosaic than congealaic, is frequently emphasized by sculptor Ann Hamilton in her installations, which have included 16,000 teeth arranged on an examination table, 750,000 pennies immobilized in honey, 800 men’s shirts pressed into a thick wedge, and floors covered by vast spreads of linotype pieces and animal hair.
Pushing the boundary between the emotive and the mechanical, and ironically commenting on the feminization of apologetic speech acts, Her Recursive Apology stages the convergence of gendered subject and machine not via a fashionable cyborg figure but through a surprisingly “flat” or boring display of text, its materiality and iterability foregrounded by the piles of its consolidation. Zweig’s work calls attention to language as the site where subject and system intersect, as Stein similarly demonstrates through her own vast combinatory of human types—a text in which new “kinds” or models of humans are made through the rhetorically staged acts of enumerating, “grouping,” “mixing,” and above all repeating. For both Stein and Zweig, where system and subject converge is more specifically where language piles up and becomes “dense.”
After describing the energetic, spirited state of enthusiasm as aesthetically sublime, he argues that enthusiasm’s opposite is not only sublime, but sublime in a superior way: “But (which seems strange) the absence of affection (apatheia, phlegma in significatu bono) in a mind that vigorously follows its own principles is sublime, and in a far preferable way, because it has also on its side the satisfaction of pure reason. A mental state of this kind is alone called noble”. Yet the apatheia that Kant finds ennobling involves a calmness and neutrality that ultimately distinguishes it from the dissatisfied (and often restless) mood of boredom. We could say that Kant’s sublime apatheia involves a lack of affect that is itself reflexively felt by the subject as neither pleasurable nor unpleasurable (that is, an absence of affect that is approached apathetically in turn, a lack about which the subject feels nothing), whereas boredom involves a deficiency of affect that is reflexively felt to be dysphoric—stultifying, tedious, irritating, fatiguing, or dulling. Ultimately only a bit different in affective value from the “serenity,” “tranquil satisfaction of superiority”, or “disinterested pleasure” in which the sublime ordinarily culminates, Kant’s apatheia is a more neutral state, reflexively yielding neither pleasure or discomfort, that “frees” the subject for other mental activities and thus finds an ally in reason. In contrast to freeing the subject from the realm of affect in its entirety, boredom immobilizes and stupefies—and indicates the inability of other mental activities, including reason, to overcome an affective state. Given the sluggishness associated with boredom, the difference between the two kinds of affective deficiency becomes clearer when Kant subsequently contrasts “affections of the strenuous kind,” which merit characterization as aesthetically sublime, with “affections of the languid kind,” which are barred from the sublime and, as Kant notes, “have nothing noble in themselves”.
(Despite its more radical neutrality, the special case of emotional disinterestedness produces virtually the same effect as disinterested pleasure — both end in “the satisfaction of pure reason.”)
Although the sublime encounter with the infinitely vast or powerful object—mathematical infinity, raging oceans, massive mountains, or hurricanes (to draw from Kant’s own examples)—is at the outset negative, involving a failure of the imagination that threatens the mind’s sense of its own capabilities (as in the case of the mathematical sublime) or precipitates a sense of physical inferiority to nature that induces fear and pain in the observer (as in the case of the dynamical sublime), both encounters end by reversing these initial challenges to the self’s autonomy, culminating in “inspiriting satisfaction” rather than unpleasure. This happens to the extent that the original revelations of subjective limitation and inadequacy, whether in the form of “the inadequacy of the imagination for presenting the ideas of a whole” or in that of the impotence the self feels when confronted with natural power and magnificence, ultimately refer the self back to its capacity for reason as a superior faculty—one capable of grasping the totality or infinity that the imagination could not in the form of a noumenal or supersensible idea, and also of revealing the self’s final superiority to nature, inasmuch as its rational faculty is revealed as lying outside nature and in fact encompassing it.