
What is it which the feedback system aims to duplicate? In the case of the thermostat it is the temperature at which it is “set.” In the case of an antiaircraft gun employing the feedback principle it is the spatial contiguity of shell and target which is the to-be-duplicated state for which there is a blueprint and a mechanism. What is it that the human being uses his feedback mechanisms to duplicate? What are the basic “targets”? What are the built-in “settings” which activate the control mechanisms? Much of the information which is transmitted over sensory and motor nerves is motivationally neutral. The visual system is designed for the continuous reception and transmission of constantly changing information none of which is per se desired or rejected. There is a very restricted class of reports which “motivate” and provide blueprints for utilizing both input information and the feedback control mechanism. These reports are of two kinds—a variety of pleasure and pain signals from the drive system and a variety of positive and negative signals from the affect system. Both systems generate responses which in turn generate sensory feedbacks which are not neutral for the organism which experiences such reports. They are immediately “acceptable” or “unacceptable” without prior learning. One does not learn the pain of hunger or the pleasure of eating. Nor does one learn to be afraid or to be joyous. The organism is so constructed that the pleasure of eating is more acceptable than the pain of hunger and the awareness of joy is more acceptable than the awareness of fear. These are the basic wants and don’t wants of the human being. They are “ends-in-themselves,” positive and negative. These are primarily aesthetic experiences. The human being passively enjoys or suffers these experiences before he is capable of either approach or escape or maximizing or minimizing them through instrumental behavior. What to “do” about these experiences cannot be altogether clear to the neonate who is relatively incompetent to do very much about anything. Although these constitute the basic wants and don’t wants of the human being, it is only gradually that they can become the targets for the feedback control system. It is a long step from the consummatory pleasure of eating and the affect of joy at the sight of the mother’s face to the “wish” for these, and a still longer step to the instrumental behaviors necessary to satisfy any wish. Nonetheless there is a high probability that the human being will ultimately utilize his feedback mechanisms to maximize his positive affects, such as excitement and joy, and to minimize his negative affects such as distress, fear and shame, and maximize his drive pleasure and minimize his drive pain.
Is the drive system duplicative in nature? It cannot be that the hunger signal experienced in the mouth or stomach is a duplicate of some deficiency in the blood stream or at some remote site within the organism. Indeed, one is hungry long before critical deficits develop and one stops eating long before whatever deficit signaled hunger is, in fact, remedied at the critical sites. The hunger signal, and the drive mechanism in general, is an instance of a special type of duplication, that of a sign or signal. In a signal mechanism there is an orderly relationship or invariance between a state of affairs in one place at one time and a state of affairs in another place or at another time. So long as the relationship is invariant, one state may signify or stand for the other state. Thus if a tone regularly precedes the appearance of food, it can be used as a sign or signal that food is coming. If the tone regularly appears at exactly the same time that the food appears, it is also a signal of food. The drive mechanism is constructed to signal that food is missing rather than present.
So our rewiring of the hunger signals to the palm of the hand or the urethra will not work for another reason. This is the change in signals concurrent with the consummatory response. The “food” placed in the palm of the hand or in the urethra could turn the drive off if we continued our rewiring of the body. We would have to have in the palm of the hand or in the urethra receptors which, when stimulated with food, produced pleasurable reports, and concurrently hunger pain signals, and which eventually turned off the rewarding signals and turned up the punishing signals, so that the palm or the urethra would stop eating. A drive, then, must include not only pain and pleasure signals at the right site which inform the individual he has both solved the general problem and will be rewarded if he continues the same kind of activity, but also a coordination, a decline in both pleasure and pain signals which change in direction and intensity over time as a function of consummatory activity. We are not here concerned about the precise mechanisms which first turn up and down the positive eating pleasure signal and the pain signals of satiety. Even though these are controlled in part by more remote mechanisms, these latter must change the drive motivating signals of hunger and pleasure in the mouth where the eating must stop long before the tissue deficit has been remedied. It should be noted that the signal of hunger appears long before the tissues are in an emergency state. The apparent urgency of hunger in man represents a considerable safety factor. He will not perish if he misses a meal. This safety factor is necessary for various reasons. Not the least of these is the fact that there is no guarantee that a drive signal will be transmuted into a report. Soldiers have been known to fight unaware of wounds which presumably instigated pain signals. If sufficiently involved with other interests, men have been known to be unaware of hunger signals at lunch time. Further, if drive signals are disregarded, whether conscious or unconscious, they may be turned off without the consummatory response. This appears to happen in the case of the defecation drive. If this is disregarded for half an hour or so, the impulse may not be there when the individual attempts the consummatory response. The sex drive in man is sometimes equally sulky.
The more biologically urgent the drive, however, the more likely the drive mechanism is to be so constructed that it will capture consciousness and the more likely it will continue to be emitted as a signal of increasing intensity, rather than being turned off if it is not consummated. The general characteristics of drive mechanisms, then, include signals which pain and signals which please. The latter are activated both before and after the correct consummatory response has begun. In some drives, e.g., thirst, both types of signal are reduced in intensity as the consummatory response is repeated until eventually both positive and negative signals cease to be emitted, and this provides the motivation for stopping the consummatory behavior. In other drives, e.g., hunger, as pleasure signals are reduced in intensity, pain signals increase to satiety. There also appear to be drives, such as pain proper, that are purely negative, i.e., the consummatory response does no more than stop the negative signals. The cessation of negative drive signals would appear to be a sufficient motivator only in the case of a drive which does not require repetition of the same activity over time. We distinguish three types of drive mechanisms. First, drives which are based on pure pain alone, as in nausea, anoxia and pain. Second, drives which are initiated by pleasure signals and terminated by pain signals, as in sex and eating. Third, drives which are initiated by both pain and pleasure and terminated by the concurrent reduction of both, as in thirst.
Sexual intercourse is a motive if it will initiate processes to maintain the response-produced feedback of sexual pleasure. “Wanting” to do anything is a motive if it will initiate processes which will produce the “wanted” experience which exists initially only as a blueprint of the future. Let us return now to the question of the relationships between drives and affects. We have attributed both informational and motivational characteristics to the drive mechanism. What more could be necessary?
Consider next the sex drive. Ordinarily the urgency of this drive is amplified by the affective response of interest or excitement. The sexual organ is the site of sexual pleasure, but the thrill of sexuality is more affect than specific sexual pleasure. The panting breathing and the moans and groans of the individual in the midst of sexual experience are the positive analog of the accelerated breathing and cry of distress of the individual in pain. We are not likely to confuse the cry of distress in pain with the pain drive itself, nor to confuse the rapid breathing of one in pain with the latter, but in the case of the sex drive the confusion of drive signal and auxiliary affect is the rule. In point of fact the excitement affect can be emitted to food, to automobiles, to an idea, in short to anything which is “exciting” to the person who is experiencing it.
How much the affect contributes to the urgency of the sex drive is clear when the auxiliary excitement is no longer emitted concurrently with the sex drive. A decrement in excitement with repeated intercourse with the same sex object is common in human sexual experience. It is only the greater complexity of the human sexual partner and the embedding of sexuality in the context of a more complex human relationship which preserves the sexual interest. Wherever the sexual interest is simple the human will be unable to sustain his excitement with the same partner indefinitely. We are suggesting that, although the affect of excitement is initially activated by sexual pleasure, the excitement can also be activated by the novelty of the sexual object. Thus intercourse with a non-exciting sexual partner can be quite as pleasurable as ever, but the total experience less rewarding. It then becomes similar to masturbation without the benefit of auxiliary excitement through concomitant erotic fantasy.