
An excessive enjoyment: he wants to steal our enjoyment (by ruining our way of life) and/or he has access to some secret, perverse enjoyment. In short, what really bothers us about the ‘other’ is the peculiar way he organises his enjoyment, precisely the surplus, the ‘excess’ that pertains to this way: the smell of ‘their’ food, ‘their’ noisy songs and dances, ‘their’ strange manners, ‘their’ attitude to work. To the racist, the ‘other’ is either a workaholic stealing our jobs or an idler living on our labor, and it is quite amusing to notice the haste with which one passes from reproaching the other with a refusal to work to reproaching him for the theft of work.
The demand for justice is thus ultimately the demand that the excessive enjoyment of the Other should be curtailed, so that everyone’s access to jouissance should be equal.
However, it is a strange case of a failed schematism, of a scheme that succeeds through its very failure. Because of this success-in-failure, the Sublime involves a strange mixture of pleasure and pain: it is a pleasure provided by the very experience of pain, of the painful failure of imagination, of the painful gap between apprehension and comprehension. Do we not encounter here again the Freudian/Lacanian paradox of jouissance 'beyond the pleasure principle', as pleasure-in-pain of das Ding which can be experienced only in a negative way - whose contours can be discerned only negatively, as the contours of an invisible void? Similarly, is not the (moral) Law itself a sublime Thing, in so far as it also elicits the painful sentiment of humiliation, of self-debasement, mixed with a profound satisfaction that the subject has done his duty?
The shift of pain into pleasure in the experience of the Sublime is also implicitly sexualized; it occurs when we become aware of how, beneath the horror of the chaotic aggregate of phenomena, there is the moral Law  - that is, it involves the 'magic' shift from the feminine monstrosity to the masculine Law.
The fundamental 'perversion' of the human libidinal economy is that when some pleasurable activity is prohibited and 'repressed', we do not simply get a life of strict obedience to the Law deprived of all pleasures the exercise of the Law itself becomes libidinally cathected, so that the prohibitory activity itself provides a pleasure of its own.
The ultimate result of the rule of the Law thus consists of all the well-known twists and paradoxes of the superego:  I can enjoy only if I feel guilty about it, which means that, in a self-reflexive turn, I can take pleasure in feeling guilty; I can find enjoyment in punishing myself for sinful thoughts; and so on.
The external law regulates pleasures in order to deliver us from the superegotistical imposition of enjoyment which threatens to overflow our daily life.
Here one can specify Lacan’s thesis that an analyst is authorised only by himself: an analysand becomes an analyst upon assuming that his desire has no support in the Other, that the authorisation of his desire can come only from himself.
The true object of anxiety is the other no longer prepared to play the role of victim—such an other is promptly denounced as a ‘terrorist’, a ‘fundamentalist’, and so on. The Somalis, for example, undergo a true Kleinian splitting into a ‘good’ and a ‘bad’ object—on the one hand the good object: passive victims, suffering starving children and women; on the other the bad object: fanatical warlords who care more for their power or their ideological goals than for the welfare of their own people. The good other dwells in the anonymous passive universality of a victim—the moment we encounter an actual/active other, there is always something with which to reproach him: being patriarchal, fanatical, intolerant....
For a long time, sexual libertarians thought that monogamous sexual repression was necessary for the survival of capitalism — now we know that capitalism can not only tolerate, but even actively incite and exploit, forms of ‘perverse’ sexuality, not to mention promiscuous indulgence in sexual pleasures. What if the same destiny awaits queer demands?
It is thus not guilt and/or pleasure, but existence itself which is at stake in the fundamental fantasy, and it is precisely this deception of the fundamental fantasy that the act of ‘traversing the fantasy’ serves to dispel: by traversing the fantasy, the subject accepts the void of his nonexistence.
In this precise sense, drive equals jouissance, since jouissance is, at its most elementary, ‘pleasure in pain’, that is, a perverted pleasure provided by the very painful experience of repeatedly missing one’s goal.
The same holds for food: the child eats in order to demonstrate how well-behaved he is, ready to fulfill his mother's demand to finish the plate and to do it properly, without dirtying his hands and the table. In short, we satisfy our needs in order to earn our place in the social order. Therein lies the fundamental impediment of the anal phase: pleasure is "barred," prohibited, in its immediacy, i.e., insofar as it involves taking a direct satisfaction in the object; pleasure is permitted only in the function of complying with the Other's demand. In this precise sense, the anal phase provides the basic matrix for the obsessional, compulsive attitude. I am allowed to enjoy something only insofar as it serves Theory qua my big Other.
The last sentence is crucial here: the "self-created" fantasmatic frame of the Ideas is the ultimate guarantee of the very reality of objects. "Idea" designates the point of the paradoxical immediate coincidence of the noumenal Thing with Schein, with the illusion which has no place in the constituted phenomenal reality. How can we fail to recall here the parallel ambiguity which from the very beginning sticks to the Freudian notion of das Ding: the Thing is "what hurts," the external traumatic X which derails the closed circulation of the Lust-Ich around hallucinatory objects, forcing the Lust-Ich to give up the pleasure-principle and to "confront reality"; yet the Thing is simultaneously the subject's innermost kernel of his being, what he must sacrifice in order to gain access to "external reality."
It is as if they find an enjoyment in their very renunciation of pleasure, in their zeal, in their inability to "take it easy," relax, and enjoy -- and it is this attitude which is perceived as a threat to American supremacy. Thus the American media report with such evident relief how Japanese are finally
learning to consume, and why American TV depicts with such self-satisfaction Japanese tourists staring at the wonders of the American pleasure-industry: finally, they are "becoming like us," learning our way of enjoying.
It is too easy to dispose of this problematic by pointing out that what we have here is simply the transposition, the ideological displacement, of the effective socioeconomic antagonisms of today's capitalism. The problem is that, while this is undoubtedly true, it is precisely through such a displacement that desire is constituted.
For that reason, the subject's symbolic identification always has an anticipatory, hastening character (similar to, yet not to be confused with, the anticipatory recognition of "myself" in the mirror image). 
Today, when Kant's antinomies of pure reason enjoy the status of a philosophical commonplace which long ago ceased to be perceived as a threat to the entire philosophical edifice, it requires a considerable effort to imagine them "in their becoming," as Kierkegaard would put it, and to resuscitate their original scandalous impact. One way to achieve this goal is to concentrate on how the antinomies differ from the logic of big cosmic oppositions: yin / yang, masculine / feminine, light / darkness, repulsion / attraction, etc. There is nothing subversive about such a notion of the universe as an organism whose life force hinges on the tension of two polar principles; what Kant had in mind, however, was something quite different and incomparably more unsettling: there is no way for us to imagine in a consistent way the universe as a Whole; that is, as soon as we do it, we obtain two antinomical, mutually exclusive versions of the universe as a Whole. And-as I shall try to demonstrate-- it is here, in this antinomy, that sexual difference is at work: the antagonistic tension which defines sexuality is not the polar opposition of two cosmic forces (yin / yang, etc.), but a certain crack which prevents us from even consistently imagining the universe as a Whole. Sexuality points toward the supreme ontological scandal of the nonexistence of the universe.
The field of intersubjectivity where subjects, within their shared reality, "look into each other's eyes," is sustained by the paternal metaphor, whereas the reference to the absent third point which attracts the two gazes changes the status of one of the two partners-- the one in the background-- into the sublime embodiment of the real of enjoyment.
Subjectivity thus involves a kind of loop, a vicious circle, an economical paradox which can be rendered in a multitude of ways, Hegel's, Wagner's, Lacan's. Lacan: castration means that the Thing-jouissance must be lost in order to be regained on the ladder of desire, i.e., the symbolic order recovers its own constitutive debt; Wagner in Parsifal: the wound is healed only by the spear that smote you; Hegel: the immediate identity of the substance must be lost in order to be regained through the work of subjective mediation. What we call "subject" is ultimately a name for this economic paradox or, more accurately, short-circuit, whereby the conditions of possibility coincide with the conditions of impossibility.
