
One of the most problematic questions in the history of human civilization is the existence of the universal motivational mechanism, which is common to all animals and underlies all particular manifestations of volitional behavior. The first hedonistic conception that (1) a human being has a common motivational mechanism throughout their life and (2) this mechanism is based on a striving for pleasure (happiness) dates back as far as to Aristippos of Cyrene, a student of Socrates. Later in classical antiquity, the idea was developed by Epicurus and his followers, and in modern times, interest in the problem increased after works by the major British utilitarians. Jeremy Bentham argued that (theoretically) any good is a measurable value and any human ideas about good and evil are based on the subjective experience of pleasant and unpleasant feelings. On this approach, other rational foundations of ethics are impossible. When deprived of the feeling of pleasure and suffering, a human being cannot have motivations; he or she will be unable to distinguish between good and evil, and will not praise or value even his or her own life. Utilitarian philosophers distinguish ethical hedonism (utilitarianism per se, in which pleasure is the sole ethical value), psychological hedonism (pleasure is the sole goal of activity), and physiological hedonism (pleasure is the sole goal of activity, and it has purely physiological basis). In this paper, I consider only physiological hedonism.
Let us discuss typical conceptual problems relating to pleasure principle and outline the conditions for its true scientific formulation. Condition 1: non-tautology. Pleasure principle should not be justified only by definitions. It should admit of a formal logical possibility of being either true or false. In the relevant literature, pleasure is often defined in a purely behaviorist manner. For example, Simonov  has defined a positive emotion as an emotion that an animal “wants to strengthen, elongate, and repeat,” while negative emotion is emotion that “he strives to weaken, interrupt, and prevent.” This, however, does not say anything regarding the behavior. It solely offers a terminology to describe the behavior.  The definition “pleasure is that which the animal strives for” automatically proves the statement “the animal always strives for pleasure.” In order to overcome the problem, we can distinguish three phenomena: subjective feelings of pleasure (“pleasure”); objective neural conditions that produce pleasure (“comfort”); and objective behavior maintaining these conditions. Scientific study can then detect any correlation between these phenomena. It will be empirically demonstrable, not merely an artifact of the conceptual apparatus we are using.
Condition 2: objectivity. pleasure principle should be scientifically verifiable or falsifiable. Therefore, it should be related to objective phenomena. Behaviorist definitions of pleasure use objective terminology, but they lead to tautology. Therefore, we must regard pleasure as a subjective phenomenon, even though this leads to the problem of measurement. pleasure principle states that volitional action maximizes pleasure. Both volition and pleasure are subjective phenomena. How are we to detect them in an objective study? In order to overcome the problem of subjectivity, I set out two meta-postulates that pleasure and volition have neural correlates. Rigorous verification of these meta-postulates is problematic, but they are in a good agreement with modern trends .
Pleasure (happiness, hedonic tone) is a measure of a creature’s subjective satisfaction with the current state of its consciousness regardless of the specific factors that have caused it: the measure of desirability of this state. Hedonic tone may be negative (suffering) or positive (pleasure per se).
Hedodynamics is a quantitative theory of individual behavior and societal development based on the pleasure principle.
Comfort is a hypothetical physiological parameter, unambiguously determining a creature’s volitional behavior according to Postulates, and being a neural correlate of pleasure according to Postulate.
Postulate 1: the existence of comfort. Any volitional actions of a conscious organism are determined by a single physiological parameter (comfort), which may take negative and positive values. In its behavior, an organism either strives to maximize the current value of comfort, or only avoids negative current values of comfort (the particular option is to be determined by experiments).
Postulate 2: the correlation between comfort and pleasure. Comfort is a neural correlate of pleasure. Negative values of comfort correspond to suffering and negative emotions, while positive values of comfort correspond to pleasure per se and positive emotions.
Postulate 3: the universality of comfort. Comfort has a similar physiological nature in all possible conscious creatures. 
Postulate 4: the correlation between comfort and utility. Intellect considers the maximization of utility as a dominating goal. There is a positive correlation between the predicted value of utility and the current value of q. This stimulates an animal to maximize utility.
Most of authors relate pleasure to particular neurochemical processes. Earlier neurochemical theories, formed in the mid-twentieth century, related pleasure to the action of cathecholamines (such as dopamine and noradrenaline) that regulate the passage of signals in the neural network. Famous experiments showed that electrical stimulation of some brain regions (responsible for the production of catecholamines) radically changes an animal’s behavior: the animal feels an overwhelming motivation to continue stimulation infinitely. It was hypothesized that animals feel strong pleasure. Therefore, the relevant brain regions were called “pleasure centers.” 
However, further experiments on humans have shown that neither their stimulation  nor the use of dopaminergic drugs produces rather strong pleasure. They produce obvious stimulation effects, but their hedonic effect seems to be a rather mistaken interpretation . Catecholamines are probably responsible not for pleasure but for the estimation of its future value . 
Today, many authors suggest that not catecholamines but opioids must be regarded as a “real substance of pleasure.” Using opiate drugs, humans feel pleasure that is much stronger than was reported in old “pleasure center” stimulation experiments. New experiments have shown that opioids influence mice even after “switching off” major dopamine mechanisms. Kent Berridge discovered two small hedonic “hotspots” in a cubic millimeter of the rostrodorsal region of the medial shell of the nucleus accumbens and in the ventral pallidum  and showed that they produce much more clear hedonistic effect than Olds’s “pleasure centers”. He hypothesizes that opioid-receptors in these “hotspots” might be real “receptors of pleasure” of the brain. 
Neurochemical theories of pleasure have one serious drawback: they do not clarify the particular physiological parameter that might be unambiguously related to pleasure. There is always a chain of effects  and it is unknown which of them “really produces” pleasure. 
The degree of predictability is estimated by computing the information analogue of free energy, a thermodynamic parameter introduced by Hermann von Helmholtz. According to Friston’s theory, the brain estimates the value of informational free energy (in particular, for sensory data) and tries to minimize it in order to increase predictability. Note that informational free energy is not physical free energy (which is related to metabolism and usually maximized, not minimized, by living organisms). A recent study  has shown that the level of dopamine might also be related to sensory prediction error and free energy. Several authors relate pleasure to intracellular processes. This view matches well with modern tendencies to depart from old ideas of the neuron as a “mere trigger.” Many contemporary works characterize the neuron as a small but independent organism with its own memory and computing power  or even individual consciousness . Soviet scientists Vladimir Shvyrkov  and Yury Alexandrov  developed a theory that each neuron has its own genetically preset motivations, demanding saturation with particular metabolites. Each neuron “wants” these substances and generates signals until other cells provide them. 
Cells that are not able to take required metabolites commit apoptosis , which is an analogue of suicide motivated by the absence of joy of life. 
It might be hypothesized that human pleasure is a sense of “satiety” of an individual’s neurons. Sergey Murik suggests an alternative hypothesis that q is related not to cell metabolism but to cellular membrane polarization (its static level). Normally, the in-cell medium has a negative charge. As a result, there is a polarization between the intracellular and external medium (of the order of –70 mV). The level of static polarization in animal and plant cells is related to the favorability of their metabolic condition. Decreased polarization (depolarization) indicates the presence of negative factors. In normal conditions, in neurons, depolarization causes signal generation , and polarization restores to the normal or increased level (hyperpolarization). If an unpleasant factor presents too long, the cell spends all its energy, becomes exhausted and decays. Murik associates hyperpolarization directly with pleasant emotions, and depolarization with unpleasant emotions. This idea maps with the results of experiments showing a correlation between: (1) negative emotional behavior and brain polarization with electrodes ; (2) neural depolarization and phantom-limb pain; and, (3) neural hyperpolarization and the effects of opiates.