What does it mean to be embodied in the multiple and shifting spaces of the world—not only the familiar spaces that seem of our own making and whose meanings we take up and live as “given” but also those spaces that seem to us strange or “foreign” in their shape and value? When I was a child, I always thought north was the way I was facing. Sure then in my purposeful direction, there was a compelling logic to this phenomenological assumption. Bringing into convergence flesh and sign, north conflated in my child’s consciousness the design of my body and the design of an atlas page. Except when I was dancing or, as a child will, walking backwards, I moved in the direction my eyes were looking—in front and ahead of me. Although I was aware of the space behind and to the sides of me, it was the space in front of me—the space I could see—that was clearly privileged, my whole body directed toward it in the accomplishment of my childish projects. I realize now, of course, that printed maps were also responsible for confusing me. The little compass on every atlas page was composed so that north enjoyed a larger or bolder arrow than did the other directional markers, and this was always pointed in a similar direction as the forward-looking trajectory of my eyes as I read. Maps were positioned on the page so that the important spaces of the world were read “in front” and “ahead” of my body just as they were in my child’s world. As a directional concept, an orientational point, north thus resonated with the naïve faith I had in my own sure direction, in the confidence I had that I would eventually encompass and conquer the world that lay before me. Indeed, this arbitrary and culturally determined semio-logic echoed and confirmed my carnal phenomeno-logic and gave it an (im)proper name: north. As I got a little older and less confident, however, north became increasingly unstable. As I began to recognize it as all-encompassing, it became disorienting and useless. Everywhere I turned and looked was north, and I started to feel that something was dreadfully wrong.
Although I no longer imagine the extremity of my blusher converging into shameful red circles on my cheeks or fear producing the chilling whiteface of the self-deluded Baby Jane, I still despair of ever being able to reconcile my overall sense of well-being, self-confidence, achievement, and pleasure in the richness of my present with the problematic and often distressing image I see in my mirror. In less than a single minute I can go from utter dislocation and despair as I gaze at a face that seems too old for me, a face that I “have,” to a certain satisfying recognition and pleasure at a face that looks “pretty good for my age,” a face that I “am.” Wanting what “technology gives,” but disavowing what it reduces or “limits,” those who find the techno-body “sexy” forget that screwing the valve into place on my prosthetic thigh brings me no shudder of physical pleasure. This is a thigh that cannot make sense of the lacy lingerie that touches it, cannot feel the silk stocking that caresses its artificial skin. In sum, my prosthetic leg has its limits, and whatever it does to extend my “being-in-the-world,” whatever way it amplifies my perceptions and enhances the significance of my existence, however much it seems to bring me into intimate material contact with the technological world, I still had to give up my fleshy leg in trade—to lose, that is, something in the bargain.
In our current cultural moment, when “high technology” has given so many cultural critics and academics a “technological high,” there might be some cachet in claiming for myself the “sexiness” of cyborg identity. Rather than—as had been the twentieth century—being on my “last leg,” I could describe myself as being on the “first leg” of some devoutly wished for transformation of my human frailty and mortality. I could indulge in fantasies of new and increasingly possible forms of personal invulnerability and immortality. However, as he rightly suggests, “The possibility of an invulnerable and thus immortal body is our greatest technological illusion—that is to say, delusion.” This is a delusion of which I want no part. Living—rather than merely writing or thinking—my “newly extended body of technological engagement,” I find the fragility of my flesh significantly precious. Although I am deeply grateful for the motility my prosthetic affords me (however much in a transformation that is perceptually reduced as well as in some ways amplified), this new leg is dependent finally on my last leg. Without my lived body to live it as a meaningful capacity, the prosthetic exists as part of a body without organs and no sense of responsibility: if you prick it, it does not bleed. Such a techno-body has no sympathy for human suffering, cannot understand human pleasure, and—since it has no conception of death—cannot possibly place value on a human life.
That is, in a commercial rather than intellectual way, it has understood how the irreal can be charged by the real and how the voyeuristic pleasures of prurient interest can find both their satisfaction and their “alibi” within the general compass of a disguising fiction whose titillation is generated by its documentation of real rather than histrionic “goings on.”
In sum, embodied and extratextual knowledge, posited and particularized existence, and personal ethical responsibility are all necessary to the full constitution of documentary consciousness on one side of the screen and documentary space on the other. Charged with the real (and the obligations it imposes), this space and the form of consciousness that structures its meaning are ever-present possibilities in every film experience—even when that experience begins and ends as a designated fiction.
Where in this alienated relation is the possibility of its alternative? In what mode can perceiving consciousness experience ease, belonging, and intense pleasure in the common and immanent density of its own flesh and the “thingly-ness” of the world’s things or in the sense and recognition that one’s own flesh exceeds one’s explanation and control and inheres in a “universal burgeoning” of immanence “without origin”? Experience tells us that we are not always alienated from the world’s objectivity but are sometimes devoted to it—and not merely in the reductive mode of commodity fetishism. Atrocious joy and horrible ecstasy have their counterpart in our sense of the sublime. The repugnant penetration of our subjective consciousness by the world’s existential “thereness” and the disgusting resistance of our lived bodies to our will may also be experienced as an intensely pleasurable “hereness,” as a liberation from the constraints of a conservative selfishness and an embrace of the fullness (rather than the completion) of being.
To those of us who are less alienated, however, the universal burgeoning of a mulberry tree, the massive, rocky crags of mountains against the sky, or sunlight defining the sharp discretion of a glass decanter on a table also occasionally take our breath away. But this gasp is experienced not as suffocation but rather as a response to something sublime—as a sudden and deep in-take of the brea(d)th of existence. This gasp is a recognition made within subjectivity of objectivity, of for-itself-ness, of material being (even our own) as a “some-thing-ness” that outstrips our determinate and determined comprehension and containment of it as merely—and reductively—only for us. As with the asymmetry of intersubjectivity, however, the asymmetry of interobjectivity is also balanced—now by the underdetermined and perceptible matter of my own body, a body-object that often exceeds my volition and determination and is objectively situated among other perceptible matter, a body-object that, rather than “as-me” or “for-me,” is seemingly “for-itself.” In some ways, then, if never completely, I sense my body in its broader existence and possibility as flesh. This sense of our body in its broader existence can occur in heightened — and negative — consciousness, as in Roquentin’s case. But it is important to emphasize that this conscious experience of our own body as an objective thing that is in the way stands in marked contrast to the transparent (or preconscious) experience of our objective body as flesh—an experience in which we exist as an expansive material capacity enjoying reversible commerce with the common flesh of the world and realizing our most fundamental intentions without a thought. the 
Interobjectivity, then, is not equivalent to nor can it be reduced to anthropomorphism or its other variants such as animism, fetishism, or reification. Rather, interobjectivity is a subjective structure of bodily engagement with objectivity that, while accommodating Roquentin’s alienation as one of these variants, also allows for alienation’s other side: the sanguine sense of not merely being-in-the-world but of also belonging to it. That is, interobjectivity as a structure includes alienation: the density and opacity of material things in a negative relation of reciprocity with the body-subject wherein the latter experiences its own being, even though lived always as “mine,” as an opaque and distanced body-object that—below explanation—leads a life of its own in indiscriminate and unwilled reversibility with nonintentional matter. However, the structure of interobjectivity also includes a positiverelation of reciprocity between the body-subject and material things wherein the former lives transparently or sublimely experiences its own objective being, even though lived always as “mine,” as an open affirmation of belonging to the world for-itself. It is within this more sanguine structure that the body-subject comes to re-cognize its own primordial inherence in the flesh and its passionate devotion to the world and to contrast it to the more passive passion of “suffering” the world. Re-cognized, this inherence and passion can then be reflectively and objectively enacted—that is, in the formation in consciousness and substantial action of a “higher-order” and more explicit aesthetic sensibility and ethical responsibility.